												Negative review regarding completely screwed DLC system not the game itself. As of this past month or so EA has magically made this game along with a crap load of the DLC free WHICH I PAID FOR VIA STEAM AND HAVE NEVER, EVER BEEN ABLE TO ACCESS BECAUSE ORIGIN IS SH!T. You get like three different CD keys for one single game because of course that makes sense. You are supposed to take these over to EA's site and register them via origin, except it doesnt work. The keys provided by steam do not work. Furthermore, getting a steam account linked to origin is an even greater pain and then ascertaining whether all the DLC is actually accesible to run via steam at that point is not something the average consumer should have to deal with. There is no excuse for this. The main story of this game is amazing. I just re installed origin and am currently getting  a free copy of the game along with all the DLC and more than I received here FOR MONEY ive never been able to enjoy because of this convoluted system. Attempting to buck steam and force people to use your lousy proprietary games client is not a good strategy. Releasing something you call a "digital deluxe edition" which does not include every last piece of DLC that has or will ever exist for the game and in fact includes less than 20 Percent of the available expansion content is ethically reprehensible. Is EA really not making enough money? Is ripping off the consumer really necessary just to make a profit? I have now paid for this game in two separate locations. Once on Xbox 360 and again on PC. I received a digital deluxe key for my PC copy on steam but have NEVER been able to access the content and you wont be able to either dont fall for this crap Steam ought to ban EA from selling any game on here again ever for this pathetic system. I am writing this review now because after multiple years EA has done jack all to make their DLC systems more consumer friendly and newer EA games suffer from the same convoluted issues. These measures do not prevent piracy but actually encourage it when paying customers are forced to look for pirated content to supplement the part of their game they were cheated out of. Despite Mass Effect 1 and 2 being my favorite modern science fiction fantasy I have refused to buy three and will likely not buy andromeda either because I refuse to give more money to people who seem so hell bent on stealing it. Dont buy this here. In fact dont buy it at all go download origin EA will give it away for free because their broken DLC model makes it more profitable for them to give you over half the game for free then attempt to nickel and dime you for things that shouldve been included on release rather than just selling a complete and well-polished game for a solid price.			
