												The story in this game is good, but the gameplay is what kills it for me. The areas you venture through are basically point A to point B with a maybe one or two different ways of getting there. The environment looks cool and all, and the game does a great job of looking like a futuristic world, but you can't help but feel like you're in a hallway that leads you to your goal. Which is fine, but at least give me a few ways of getting there. The main reason I can't recommend this game is the gameplay. While the story, voice acting, and dialogue are all great - the gameplay is lacking. Firefights are just tedious and boring. I usually use the sniper to take out the idiot enemies further back, then the pistol or assualt rifle for the ones closer up. Still the combat is so dull and unchallenging. I'm sure it probably gets better later on in the game, but I'm over 6 hours in, and it just isn't doing it for me. The squad abilities are cool and all, but the fact that you can finish almost all firefights without using them at all lets you do just that. So the abilities end up being flash instead of a necessity. There are little things that bug the hell out of me. For example if you decide to switch to the sniper rifle, but accidentally click on the grenade launcher, you have to switch to the GL and then switch to the sniper rifle. Even thought the game is basically paused, you can't cancel your mis-click and re-click on the weapon you wanted to switch to. Then the AI on the enemies isn't the greatest. They'll stand near the edge of cover, and you can easily shoot them. But instead of moving away to protect themselves they just keep taking fire until they poke out to shoot or die. Also, they pop out to shoot on a timer it seems like. The enemy AI is so predictable it takes away any difficulty.The game is positively received by most, so you should probably give it a shot anyways. But I just wanted to share my opinion. Personally I dislike the game, but that doesn't make it a bad game. The story, voice acting, characters, environment, are all great, but the gameplay leaves me bored.			
