												TL;DRMass Effect 1 is better IMHO. Mass Effect 2 isn't ALL bad, but there's alot of stuff that is wrong. Get Mass Effect 1 first, and if you want, force yourself through Mass Effect 2 for the story like I am._______I wish there was a neutral choice for a review, this game is ok. But playing it just makes me want to go back to mass effect 1._______First of all I'll list the things that are in mass effect one that aren't here.Infinite ammo: Mass effect 1 had infinite ammo that made combat more "fun" and less about ammo conservation, I find my self firing really slow while playing mass effect 2 to stop my weapon from overheating, just to realize it has a magazine system where you reload after X shots.Different Armour Types: I miss holding on to the Scorpion IV armor even though it wasn't that great because I thought it looked cool. Mass Effect 2 doesn't really allow you to change armour but it does allow you to change the colour scheme of your default armour.The Old Cast/The Original Normandy: I'm fine with them removing the normandy and the old cast the way they do in the story, but I just wish that the old cast was a little more than a picture on your desk or a "Hi how are you? Wanna come with me for old times sake?" "Nah I can't I have a life now. I know we like saved the galaxy together and all(Or in the case of certain characters, made sweet love on a spaceship), but it's been two whole  years and I have more important things to do than saving the galaxy with you again." I also really liked walking around the old normandy and talking to the crew, but the new normandy has areas that aren't accessible from the start, "I'm the ♥♥♥♥ing captain, let me look around my damn ship!!!"Long Elevator Rides/More "Open World" Feel: I don't know about you, but I liked to walk everywhere I went in Mass Effect 1. The long elevator rides listening to the news or walking around the citadel doing side missions, I completely ignored all the fast travel stations. In mass effect 2, the different levels of the citadel (And even your ship [more later]) are all seperated by loading screens, I spent a good ten minutes walking around my first time on the citadel only to realize I HAD to use the "fast travel" station. The new normandy also has ~4 different levels and a central elevator which you have to use to access the storage bay/crew quarters/main deck/captains quarters. I miss walking down the curved stairs and the short elevator ride to the storage bay on the original normandy.    Each time you complete a "mission" it presents you with an equivilent of a "Mission Complete" screen, which I feel shouldn't be there as it only detracts from the experience by making me feel as if I'm just running around completing arrands as opposed to going on one giant journey to save the galaxy.My Character's Scars From Mass Effect 1: When importing my character from Mass Effect 1, Mass Effect 2 removed my character's eyebrow and lip scars. This wouldn't be a problem if I was allowed to edit my imported character, but I wasn't. It was either "Take what we give you" or "Start from scratch". I spent a good ~20 minutes in the Mass Effect 1 editor making my character PERFECT. I'm not doing it again just to wind up with a character that's slightly different. So I have to live without my cool scars.(Why do I like the scars so much?)I picked the "Sole survivor" psychological profile and felt my character needed scars to show they had actually "Survived" something.Kaiden Alenko(Romance Subplot): If you import a character who completed the romance subplot from Mass Effect 1, you can't continue that "plot" until Mass Effect 3, you also can't do anything with any of the new characters because reason(Ask EA). So all you get is a picture of Kaiden/Ashley/Blue Lady from Mass Effect 1.(You might not even get a picture for the other characters, all I know is I completed the Kaiden one and have a Kaiden picture on Shepards desk.)Paragon/Renagade System: Mass effect 1 allowed you to choose dialogue options that were either "Paragon/Renegade" whereas Mass Effect 2 puts prompts in the bottom corners of your screen to either right click or left click for "Paragon/Renegade" actions. I missed these prompts the first few times because I was too busy paying attention to the characters to notice two tiny blue and red icons in the corners of my screen.Combat: Special abilities (The tech and biotic powers) felt like they had more weight in Mass Effect 1, you opened up the command menu and clicked the icon, then there was a cast time on the attack. In Mass Effect 2, the abilities cast instantly and feel so... Weightless. Having to conserve ammo means that you'll eventually run out and end up using a weapon you don't want to or is wrong for the situation. I went through almost all of Mass Effect 1 using only the pistol. In Mass Effect 2, I find myself constantly being forced to use weapons I don't want to(Looking at you machine pistol).Health: I miss sitting in the corner on low health desperately waiting for my medi-gel to come off of cooldown or even worse trying to beat the boss because I'm out of medigel. Mass Effect 2 offers no such experience, there is no health bar, the shields run out, then the screen grows veins(Which get darker the closer you are to death), then the veins go away over time, then the shields recharge.Controls: Almost everything has changed. Worst of all, spacebar is originally bound to do three things(Run,Take Cover, and Interact). There's no crouch button, I miss running around crouched and slowly peaking over stairs and balconies in Mass Effect 1. Ordering squadmates where to move is no longer in the nice command menu, but is instead bound to seperate keys. The controls are jacked, and going from Mass Effect 1 to Mass Effect 2 is really hard without sitting down and changing all the controls to atleast resemble those of Mass Effect 1.Galaxy Map: The  galaxy map in Mass Effect 1 involved clicking on planets and systems to choose a destination, the new galaxy map featured in Mass Effect 2, involves driving the ship around onscreen to choose a destination. Makes me feel as though the developers thought they might lose my attention if I wasn't playing some "cool" minigame while choosing where to go.I probably missed something but I'll move on to what I like about this compared to Mass Effect 1.__________"I'm Commander Shepard, and this is my favorite store on the Citadel.": Basically you can go around and endorse every single store on the citadel and then Shepard's voice is played over the sound system whenever you enter a door and She/He says that.Buying Stuff for the Captain's Quarters: I think it's neat. I like the hamster, fish, and the little replica of the good Normandy.Being Able to Change Casual Clothes: In Mass Effect 1 whenever you're on your ship you're forced to walk around in a space suit thing. Mass Effect 2 allows you to wear differen't types of clothes when you're on your ship or in other non combat zones. Granted you don't get many choices, but it beats no choice.Joker is Still The Pilot(?) of The New Normandy: I mean, it's no Kaiden Alenko, but atleast I get someone from Mass Effect 1 for a majority of the game.________I can't recommend this game to be the first "Mass Effect" game that someone plays. It just doesn't live up to Mass Effect 1. I'm still going to play it for the "story" and probably get Mass Effect 3. But if I go back to relive the Mass Effect games, I might just play Mass Effect 1 again.			
