I've already reviewed this game at great length for the Xbox 360; mainly noting its dissapointment compared to San Andreas or indeed any other GTA (except maybe GTA III). If you're looking for single player content, this game simply doesn't have any. With a generic (for a GTA game) story, repetitive missions, and a plot/setting/context with zero creativity and some half-arsed mini-games thrown in; it's definitely a game which Rockstar played it safe with - something which nobody expects from a Grand Theft Auto title- which always push the boundaries in open-world freedom of expression and creativity. Multiplayer is new and it has got some good variety but somehow doesn't feel right either. The reason for this is down to the controls. Only official Xbox 360 controllers are supported, and the auto-aim means multiplayer has almost zero skill in combat. It's still fun to play though occasionally due to the variety, which includes three co-op missions. So if you decide to use mouse and keyboard, you'll find the default button mapping to be pretty much perfect. However, the one thing that ruins the whole experience of making it fluent; and this applies more on PC than console - is the extremely clunky response for movement and the camera. Sometimes you feel that you have no control over Niko. My final complaint is with the stability issues and lack of optimisation for PC. Yes, you can still have your own music station as before, but the graphics are far too inefficient. Don't get me wrong, this is an amazing looking game even for today, but it is in desperate need of anti-aliasing even at 1920x1080, especially given the nature of the game. If you don't have around 1.5GB dedicated graphics memory you can't really max it or run it well. I have a 1GB GTX 560 Ti and considering I get 48 FPS on BF3 on High in multiplayer, you'd think this game on max would be a piece of cake. But the draw distance consumes ridiculous amounts of VRAM. The Xbox 360 version, despite getting crap framerate, had at least more consistency in graphics. Screen tearing, freezes, pink textures, AI behaving weird, bugs, glitches - anything you can think of is present. Given the quality of the game as a whole, these technical issues make a mockery of all the claimed $100 million budget. There's also the problem that there is no cfg file where you can adjust anti-aliasing or set a frame limit. You can manually limit the frame rate by entering a command line into a shortcut pointed at the executable, but this still doesn't make for smooth gameplay experience. Even commandline fixes within the game directory can't fix the random freezing, crashing and sometimes textures not loading bugs, which is extremely frustrating. OK that's me done complaining. So what credit does this game actually deserve? The most notable and most significant in my opinion, is how the driving mechanics and the car designs themselves are better than any other open-world game. Not only do cars look beautiful and unique, but they handle differently too. It's very fun to just drive on this game and very rewarding. Better than a lot of racing games if you ask me. Other accomplishments include a decent attempt at capturing New York City. Although most of the city looks pretty bland and copy and pasted throughout and most of it doesn't get used in the main story, it's still not a bad effort given the size. It's very grande and distinctly recognizable. The city does feel authentic and AI is quite good - certainly more realistic than the previous games which had rubbish ragdoll physics and very blocky movement. This is down to the brilliant Euphoria engine in conjunction with RAGE. Other good points about this game include the very nicely paced progression and robust game mechanics such as the combat and the wanted system for losing cops. The classic GTA humour and chat stations are here too. The attention to detail is also impressive- everything from easter eggs to the realistic volume of the radio according to how far away you are from your car. What else? The only thing that remains to be credited is that overall, as a package, it's a solid game. It may not do anything new or do anything exceptionally well, and the content is lacking. However if you consider it on its own without comparing to other open-world games it's a very high quality game on the whole. Sure the PC version isn't optimised and it deserves negative marks for its lack of innovation and the miniscule amount of content for an open-world game, but if you can overlook these issues there's a decent experience to be found here. Just tread with caution and be prepared for some heavy technical issues on the PC version.
