The sims 3... A great game on PC, but WII?? not so much,   When you first play the game you're presented with an amazing character creation mode. Where you can use MOST of the features of the pc version. With the personality sliders gone, you can build a more complex sim.   The controls are also quite cool, It plays just like the other games in the series.   But the gameplay, after the amazingly promising character creation system is very very very very repetetive. All you do is watch you're sims do different actions... WATCH your sim sleep, WATCH your sim wash (with pixled out bits) WATCH your sim cook, WATCH your sim eat, WATCH your sim read  WATCH your sim play guitar... there's no REAL interaction with your sim and you... though that IS what the origional sims was. you WATCHED your sim do everything, but at least it felt like you were DOING something for your sim... this game just feels like RUNESCAPE seriously!! and with the REWARDS of Steel bladder, no need to sleep, no need to eat, no need to work. Makes the game feel even more pointless. Sure that frees up more time for your sim to do stuff... that STUFF is Pointless too cos it takes FOREVER, and I mean FOREVER to make friends with people. seriously, cos it took me 2 hours to make my first friend. and it was VERY boring, stood there watching my SIM talking, and my SIM trying to make friends with people.    So it takes FOREVER to get ANYWHERE with relationships. And even then some of your traits you picked earlier on, can get in the way of giving your sim a worthwhile relationship (Boyfriend/girlfriend) and even then your other sim will always be walking around town, so you won't be able to find them easily. and get them home to knuckle down to the seriousnes of (dunno how else to put this) trying for a baby...    Even after you've tried that, your sims will just go about "WALKING" around town mindlessly. One of the OTHER problems I have with this game is that, EVERYONE, and I mean EVERYONE walks around MINDLESSLY even KIDS, so if a kid has to go to school it isn't easy to get them there...    I've got ONE more problem, and that is IT'S SERIOUSLY GLITCHY...   On one file so many sims died that it ended up being a ghost town, with NO ghosts??   Also there are wierd camera glitches, like it suddenly flips round.   and sometimes your bed sheets suddenly wriggle about... and when you jump out of bed to get changed... there is LAG!! serious LAG  and there's NO water graphics. Once I just walked to a empty looking pool and my sim just randomly started swimming...    In conclusion here are my good and bad points   Good points  > Fun and complex character creation system  > Cool controls  > Great graphics   Bad points  > Glitchy   > No GOALS or MISSIONS  > sims walk around mindlessly   > you WATCH your sim do everything  >BORING gameplay
