How this game was picked "Editor's Choice" is a conversation I would very much like to have with the so-called "Editor" of GameSpot.com.   None the less, EA came out very predictable with an expansion to it's usual crony tactics--No Content! OK, well they call it custom content I guess. There's this silly little tool that lets put add textures to objects so I guess either you have no need for "models" anymore, which if you have checked MTS3 there truly aren't any. At all. What-so-ever. No beds, No Curtains, No windows.   The game is also missing things, like Half Walls and most notably objects to interact with. You can expect to dish out just as much, if not more, of the same amount of money, plus any other aditional "stuff packs", which will be surely more in number as given EA's TS2 "stuff pack" release history; they released a lot of them at the end, as if a lightbulb went on in their head, "Ding!".   Maybe not, "Ding!", but rather, "KaChing!"   That's not all. The game was divided between "residential" lots and "commercial lots", and that's it. So that means all you have is your homes and a bunch of grass green parks. But wait, there's more! You also don't get to actually place lots, you can only "paste" lots from a saved "copy" into an existing lot, and you cannot change the size of the lots.   But wait, there's more! They package each and every "additional content" piece separately, so look forward to installing 25 or 30 little packages, every 3 or so being different versions of the same style (hair & dresses), and you get to look forward to an hour of click clickity clicking!   Ok, I guess I can move onto the good parts now. Building a house is a lot better. It's easy to do but I miss the truly modular stairs, which I don't even know if that is possible to mod because all I've seen so far is tools, textures and houses.   Graphics are better. Sound is better. Music is worse but so what because you'll probably put in custom music anyway. Game only ships with an acoustic guitar, no electric. I expect them to release a "band" expansion and a "business" expansion and about 14 or so other expansions, plus 14 or so other "stuff packs" and millions of separate downloads each for 1.99-3.99 during a recession.   This really goes a long way towards showing how EA really feels about their customers. And the fact that I am writing this review twice seals that in stone.   A fan will want to buy it to see it for themselves but newcomers play TS2 or simply stay away.
