Okay, let me start off by saying that I have been playing "The Sims" since the very first game came out in the year 2000. This so-called "expansion pack" is probably one of the worst I've seen in a Sims game. For instance, there are very few new items to buy for your Sims. The new interactions are pointless.    The rumors Sims spread around town are obnoxious, (this isn't the 1920's people). I am aware that the rumors started with Late Night, but they added even more insanely stupid ones into the mix. Like, if your Sim isn't married, and has sexual relations (while single, not in a relationship with anyone) with more than one Sim, rumors spread like crazy that the Sim is "dirty/bad or a cheater". What kind of time period are the developers living in? Do people still live like this in 2011? Really? I feel like this game is trying to go back to the 1900's or something. Quit forcing morals into my Sims lives!   Next, the "family" interactions are minimal. There are hardly any new interactions. Pranks? Wow... Since most of the time the Sims who do this never get caught or punished makes it not entertaining at all. There are more interactions that I could mention, but it is just so dull, that I don't even think I should mention it. They're pretty hard to remember since they seem to be something from one of the old games (exciting and new, right?).    Another reviewer mentioned "prom" and that person is absolutely right. A little pop up message comes up. So fun right?   The only slightly entertaining thing about this expansion are the new traits. I really enjoy the "rebellious" trait. Other than that, "meh".   What a waste of time and money. Do people actually enjoy these new Sims games that have nothing new to offer? Not only that, but they have even stripped away some of the things that made the first two great. Actually being able to go inside buildings, character, charm, humor, being able to build your own town, easy custom content. What else is this game missing?  Think about it.
