I felt that this stuff expansion pack lacked a lot of content that you would expect from the price. You may remember how in the Sims 2 they would advertise that you get "60 NEW ITEMS", well the reason they don't on this one is because you don't get anything near that amount. The items that you do get don't do anything new in themselves, such a you get 2 more gaming consoles -but they work the same way as the one you already have, only that they look different. You already have a big HDTV, Running Machine, Flat-screen Computer, so why would I want another one that just looks a little different? It would have been nice to have NEW technology, like a 82inch 3D-TV, a Robot Nanny, Touch-Screen Tablet Coffee Table, an iPod for your Sims or a massage chair etc. As for the house design, you only get one new door and one new window which is a complete rip-off for something advertised as a "Design" expansion pack. There are so few new out-fits that they're not even worth going in to detail. This expansion pack was a lazy piece of work that feels rushed by EA to release something for their 10th Anniversary and make a quick buck from their loyal customers. It's a shame as well as the Sims franchise has been so successful that they should used its Birthday as an opportunity to celebrate it with an amazing expansion pack. Lets just hope the next one isn't just a greedy money-making piece of crap from EA like this one was.   EDIT:  I've noticed that some reviews on sites such as Amazon.com etc talk about the value for money from this expansion pack compared to the Sims Store. Although this is correct, all it means that this is less of a rip-off than The Store, but at the end of the day its still a rip-off. I can't imagine anyone honestly saying that £1 or $1 for one piece of virtual furniture is a great deal (oh EA, are you not merciful with your pricing?????). I feel that EA is clearly taking advance of their loyal Sims fans with this system of buying items for the game, and this is not the direction games should be heading. If this becomes the industry standard, we'll be spending much more for games without realizing because of the in-game content that must be purchased separately.
