Some people are obsessed with the Sims, buying every expansion pack and spending hundreds of dollars on it. I personally only did so with the first Sims, the Sims 2 was enough on its own and I believe the same will apply for the Sims 3. Anyways, I enjoy the base gameplay but not the unnecessary content (Hello mod community, not worth paying for expansions to get new furniture and some other silly items).   The graphics have been improved over the Sims 3, however on my GTX 260 video card at 1920 x 1200 full settings it manages to wear down sometimes (Mostly when loading items for the first time from something like map view - sometimes you see unloaded textures which look like crap for a few seconds before the textures load, but occasionally this process will lock the computer up - I know it has for me anyway). Animations are even more realistic and details are great. Greatly improved also is the ability to customize the colors of everything making exactly what it is you are looking for - a large complaint I had in the Sims 2. It costs nothing to customize colors so it is a nice way to improve your house's appearance without spending any money.   The new trait system is a welcome addition, it is interesting to see sims reacting to each other based on their traits. I had a computer whiz character and he chatted about computers with someone and by doing that found out they are a technophobe. They also determine what you need to do for your lifetime awards. Social interactions are based on your traits many times and specific options are available depending on who you're talking to and how you know them. Something I'm not entirely sure of, it seems you can have five positive traits and no negatives which makes it seem like picking the negative traits would be only for sims who grow up and happen to randomly have one of those traits assigned to them. I gave my sim two negative ones mostly because they fit my true self, but it seems a bit unfair to allow you to pick nothing but positives if you choose to.   The new map system is also a welcome addon. You can go anywhere with ease by zooming out and clicking there. This is how you can get to jobs, interesting locations, neighbor's houses, co-worker's houses, etc. You can also select whether to schmooze your boss, chat with co-workers, take it easy, do an average job, and power work along with other options the more advanced you get in your career (I have only done business so I can't speak for the others).   The sounds are good as well. Ambient noise is nice and not overpowering but helpful. One large complaint I have is how high the volume must be turned up to hear your sim speaking. I always liked listening to them talk, however in this version (and as I found out from an EA Support rep) they made the simlish much quieter because apparently people complained about it. Anyways, even after adjusting the volume up I still have to turn my speakers up a lot to hear my sim and the music despite being turned almost to zero comes on full volume and has no control making me keep hitting mute whenever I fulfill a wish or get a promotion. I have surround and no matter if I have my sims center screen they're very quiet and any sims to the left or right of the screen come on loudly in the left and right channels respectively. I find I have to scroll so my sim is to one side of the screen to hear him well which is annoying.   My largest and most infuriating problem with this game is the huge amount of crashes, errors, glitches, bugs, and other stupid oddities I've had with the game in such a short time frame. I purchased the game the day after it was released and the paperboy who came on my lot, when I tried to chat with him froze the computer up. Had to reboot. Then I was scrolling across lots and it locked up again. So I started religiously saving, hitting the save button several times and hour to ensure no lost work. I had a few more crashes that ensued from similar problems (crashed when I zoomed in from map view, crashed one time when I tried to enter someone's house, crashed one time from a social interaction - all times they were unrecoverable and required a reboot). In case anyone suspects my PC (As I was beginning to wonder such), I have Windows XP Pro SP3, latest Nvidia drivers, I shut down all background tasks, ran a defrag, registry cleaner, virus scan, spyware scan, and even reinstalled my graphic card drivers and the crashes are still random and unpredictable.    I've also had some glitches where textures won't load. I'll zoom in from the map view and the wall textures will not load, sometimes I have to zoom out and back in for them to load. I've had my sim get stuck a few times which was annoying. I have had my computer in the game blow up, the repairman left saying he fixed everything but didn't touch it, and it works now but one of the options is still to replace it even though the other 100% functional options are there too. Not sure why this is occuring but I reloaded a save and it is still like this.   The end all, stop all, drop everything and READ THIS PART is the save problems. If you're like me and spend a lengthy time creating your sim, customizing their house, and forming relationships with other people you most likely take a long time to do so. Well, I played the game for several hours a couple days ago and saved many times throughout. As I finished up and closed it I saved and quitted the game. I come back the next day and I see no save file. Only a family with a dotted blank outline and no options. The name doesn't match mine, I couldn't open the save anyways, all my work seemd to be gone. I checked the Sims 3 folder under my documents and saw the saves and sim files all intact so I didn't know what the problem could be was. I emailed EA about it and was promised a response in 24 hours. Ha ha ha ha ha, yeah right. I sent the email three days ago and still have no answer. I had to call EA support to speak with a rep about the problem.   Anyway, so the rep tells me the save is corrupted and sorry my seven hours of work are gone. I was so steamed to have wasted my time. However we discovered the sim file was still good so I was able to keep my sim. After further looking, it created a .backup file which when renamed gave me a restored save point. I was so relieved, however it was disheartening to have such a massive failure in such a short time. The save had been corrupted after only a day or so of playing. Since this event I have been saving many different named files and even more frequently. I thought I was in the clear as the game had been relatively stable for awhile with no glitches. Oh was I wrong...   I'm playing today after an hour or so and I go to my buy screen to buy a nicer stove - the buy tab lights up but no icons or menu shows up next to it. I can see floating icons in the middle of the screen. I thought I was being impatient so I switched back to live mode and then back to buy. Now I can see a little more of the buttons but nothing else. I tried build mode - same thing. Live mode was okay, but buy and build were broken. Worried the game would lock up and ruin my progress I tried to save. It took an unusually long time and returned to me with a "Error 12". I looked it up and this error is a "World file save failure". I clicked between live and buy a few times, went to map view and zoomed back in and now the buy menu was showing properly again. I tried to save again and it returned a new error this time: "Error 13". I looked that up and "Error 13" is a "Post-save callback failure". I tried saving multiple times and everytime I had an "Error 13". I decided to go ahead and lose my progress from the last save and load it up again - now I can't save from my old save file even if I rename it. All these errors recommend contacting EA. I may have just lost all the progress I've made over the past day with this sim.   Now I can understand some launch bugs, glitches, etc etc. This is unacceptable though. EA is not thoroughly bug testing as I have had multiple save failures with this game. Calling EA is a lengthy process as I had over a 45 minute wait to speak with a rep - they claim due to the release of the Sims 3. I question whether others are calling of problems too. In any case, I'm afraid to play this game because it seems like my work will be lost on a whim if the game decides to corrupt my save. Never have I had to worry about a save file corrputing so quickly or any such like this ever before.   I like the Sims 3 and when playing it it's great fun. I'm drawn to it for this fact, however it's extremely risky given the nature of the save failures. If you are like most people who just hit save regularly you might lose everything. I'll give EA some time to release a patch to hopefully fix some of these nonsense save problems, but in the meantime I'm going to shelf the Sims 3 until it is fixed. As it stands, the game is too unpredictable to play for any length of time without risk of loss of your progress. Shame on you EA for not beta testing the game better.   UPDATE 5/7/2011: Over the past 2 years EA has released many patches. My issues with the saves have not occurred since, and many other glitches resolved themselves. Lately though I started (or tried to anyway) playing the Sims 3 again after a long break. First off, the launcher crashed when I hit play. Then the bubbles over the sims' heads were blank some of the time and flickered. This drove me bonkers, so I tried disabling custom content and a few light mods I had installed. Nope still did it. I uninstalled the game, reinstalled it (much to my chagrin) and hoped for the best. Now the launcher crashes when I even try to open it. Nice. Fine, I can bypass that and just use TS3.exe to launch the game (Albeit now I can't update my game without manually downloading two dozen patches...or use my custom content). Nothing happens. Okay, I check task manager - it opens then closes immediately. Now I can't get the game to launch under ANY setting. Administrator, compatability mode, shutting off EVERY (And I mean every) program running in the background on my PC including anti-virus, firewall, GPU monitoring software, etc) - nope, crashes every time. This is on a fresh install. I tried running it without my saves, without my mods, I removed ALL of them to another location - still crashed.   So as of this date, The Sims 3 is unplayable for me. Boy am I glad I didn't buy any of those expansions the other day when they were on sale. This is the EA I have come to know and loathe. Broken games that just don't work in any way. BF2 formerly didn't work for me for 4 years - I randomly installed it a few weeks ago and it works now for some unknown reason. The Sims 3 might be the same way - but value for money I don't get ANYWHERE near the level of satisfaction out of these games because they never work when I want them to. Like a sucker I buy each new Sims (Numbered, not expansion) and think, "This time will be different!" - and it's the same thing every time. *Sigh* Well, time to shelf The Sims 3 for a few years - maybe by the time we have our 8th expansion pack and 26th content pack my game will work again.
