World adventures adds as much content as can be expected from a sims expansion pack, taking a vacation is a pretty cool idea.   The foreign worlds are ok.  Its cool that you can visit one and make new friends or lovers there.   exploring the tombs is fun but they are extremely frustrating when you find your sim having pathing issues.  you can buy food to eat as you are exploring, shower in a can to handle hygiene, and tents that act as a place for your sim to sleep.  However you may find yourself stuck in a tomb with a tired sim and no place that your tent will fit on the ground, you must endure minutes of frustration trying your best to not punch something or shout out obscenities.   Wine making is cool in the fact that it gives you another thing to do with your gardening skill, But with so many possibilities (it takes 10 fruits to make a batch) it is difficult to make a great brew.  World adventures also adds a photo taking skill.   The horrible thing about World Adventures is that it makes load times take a horribly long amount of time in all loading situations.  It is so bad I can hardly bare to play the game at all. All load times are near or greater than 5 minutes.  Also, random loading while playing the game gets quite frustrating. I don't have a shabby pc either.  Shortly after installing this expansion I lost interest in the game simply for the load time problems.   Another important thing to point out is that with my current households that i was playing from before I installed the expansion, I could not travel. The maps would load but my sims would never load in the vacation areas.  I had to start from a new save.   If you don't mind the possibility of having to start over from a fresh save, and don't mind 5 minute loading times, then go ahead and buy World adventures.  Personally it ruined the Sims experience for me.  It has been MONTHS since the expansion has been released and EA has done nothing to fix these issues.   I don't know that 5 is a fair score for the game. Since it ruined the game for me perhaps I should give it a 1, but without these problems i would give it an 8, I suppose a 5 is based on the potential that they could patch and fix the issues.
