I've been a fan since Sims 2.  I was so excited about Sims 3. In fact, I spent nearly $100 on a graphic card so that I could play this game.    It was a total let down.   1. Very limited options when it came to decorating and for sure with clothes and hair. (toddlers-kids you get like three outfits and hairstyles)  2. There wasn't the same feel that the families within the game were... families!  3. They eat so fast nobody talks over a meal. Eating quick meals fills you the same amount as a full meal. So I end up hardly ever cooking. What's the point when quick meals are free?  4. Interactions between Sims are very limited.  5. Story progression is a total pain in the rear. Sims related to your family might move totally out of the neighborhood, it's very hard to control multiple families at a time. So much so that I don't even try anymore.  6. It takes FOREVER for your Sims to even START to do something. You wait a Sim hour for it to even start changing clothes or picking something up or whatever.  7. You overall have a lot less control over things.  8. Limited amount of careers  9. Catching your neighbors at home can be nearly impossible.  10. If you push 'kick out' when moving someone out(meaning the game picks where they live and such) you probably won't see those Sims ever again. Or if you do it'll be a generation later!(this happened to me three times before I finally gave up)  11. No instruments! Well- other than the guitar.   12. Genetics are practically non existent. That was one of my fave parts of Sims 2. It was fun to see how the kids would turn out. Epic fail in this department.   Good Things?  Yes, the open neighborhood, traits, and create-a-style are cool.  It just doesn't make up for all the other problems with this game.   What To Do?  I waited. I thought, hey! expansions will make is better. It's just the base game. I can't judge it too harshly.  Expansion packs didn't help in the least. With each one I would spend more money and yet get very little content in return. I've now spent $187 and there is STILL less content!  Come on EA, this game is getting old.  It should have some totally awesome expansion packs to perk up this failing game.  Yet they don't. You get a handful of new features, mostly small, a new job or two, one set of new furniture and they call that good(for the price of $40)!  Sorry, but I'm going back to Sims 2.     I feel scammed. Maybe I would feel less so if the STORE they have wasn't full of tons of stuff way cooler than what they put into their expansion packs.  It's like playing a pay-to-play game but you still have to buy things from the store!
