Okay, ever since I TOUCHED the Sims 3 disc, I have been in love with the entire series, but Generations, oh my freaking god...   The concept of this game is that it adds stuff to make every generation of a family a fun one, I think they did this with The Sims 2:Freetime, but THAT game was actually good.   Generations is suppose to add new features for The Sims 3, like pranks and children roleplays, but sadly, nobody gives a crap. This game is the WORST of The Sims 3.   Okay, while pranks SEEM funny at first. They get unfunny VERY quickly, the pranks range from the a toilet going crazy and getting a sim all wet, to downloading a screamer on someone's computer, sadly, it doesn't do anything to the game except that you're character may get grounded...   It adds a new career-Daycare, you have to take care of toddlers and children, but, this career is VERY hard, at one point when you're sim is DEATHLY tired and wants to go to sleep, oh no! Little Mortimer is hungry! Little Bella is bored to death! And Little Malcolm hasn't finished his homework! BETTER KEEP THEM HAPPY OR THEIR PARENTS WILL HATE YOU FOREVER!   There are also new traits, a trait where you're chances of being grounded or being caught after you're curfew, and one where children and teens stop b*tching if you're around. But nobody reallys uses these traits...   It also adds memories, to bad 90% of the things you're sim does will ALWAYS be recorded into a memory, so if you're sim just ate a bowl of soup, YOU ATE SOUP! YAY!   Then there are proms, which are just pop-up messages telling you if you're teen got prom king/queen or got into a fight, so you can't see you're sim have the best night of their high school life. Yay?   There are boarding schools, but you just don't see you're son/daughter for a few days until he/she comes back with some random skill. Yay?   But the GOOD thing is that you can have a proper wedding, in Late Night and earlier, you couldn't have a proper wedding, because there were no wedding arches, so thats a buff...   Overall, this is the worst game for The Sims 3, UNLESS you are a Sims fan who will commit suicide if you don't have all of the EP, then skip it, NOW!
