I pre-ordered the Collector's Edition of The Sims 3 as soon as I could, and was extremely excited to get it. I started it up, played it, and quite honestly, I felt like it was a waste of $70.00, or whatever I paid for it. I'm a long time fan of The Sims, especially The Sims 2, and quite frankly, The Sims 3 just doesn't measure up.  Now, on its own, if the previous games hadn't existed (and therefore rendering this game incomparable), it would be great. I enjoy the idea of having a completely open city, and not having to deal with a screen between going to different locations. I also enjoy how customizable the whole game is. It does a fabulous job of that. The new features as well, they're splendid. But what really gets me is just how ugly everything looks.   All of the sims are just, in my opinion, horrid and painful to look at. They've been smoothed out, and they're simply just generally a lot uglier than the sims in The Sims 2. The faces aren't nearly as easy to shape, all of the hair is just awful (unless if you buy hair from The Sims 3 online store - using real money, no less (which is a totally different story on its own)), the clothes are... ugh. Sure, you can change the patterns, the colours... but it's the meshes that really matter. I don't care if the shirt's checkered, if it just looks odd and unrealistic and, well, rubber, I don't care.   I don't play this game often because of that. I mean, the gameplay is great. I love it. But the main part is the sims themselves. I can never get past creating a sim, as I'm never satisfied with anything, no matter how much I change them around. It's a tad shallow of me to focus on one thing, but in my opinion, it is a large factor of this game, and it absolutely just kills the rest.   I much more prefer The Sims 2 still, because the sims are easier to customize, and there's already loads of custom content for them, most of which is free. Now, The Sims 3 is still very new, and I shouldn't be expecting there to be too much custom content available yet (from websites other than the official). But does it really matter if the sims are awful looking? No.    I'm giving this game a 6.0 because the gameplay has improved very much since The Sims 2, but how everything looks just really brings it down. If it had the graphics of The Sims 2, and the features of The Sims 3, I'd be happy. But I am shallow and just can't deal with the appearances.
