I've been playing the Sims since their first arrival way back in January, 2000.  It was easier to become addicted to that game back then, because nobody wanted to live the mediocre lives they are living.  As is the case today.  You use cheats on the Sims to become a multi-millionaire to buy that really expensive car, or you "work hard" and earn that average car (and that extra level on your house).  But what's new in the Sims today, that would make you want to go buy it right this minute?  Nothing really.   Sure you get a new car, and you're able to hack on computers.  Shoot, you can even rob your neighbors, or go to the park to...play guitar?  The thing is, these are just menial objects designed to make you go, "Hey!  I don't have that yet!"  You can really only take the car to work, or to community lots.  You don't get to actually "drive" it.  You can't get in a street race on the way to work.  You can't run the red light and be stopped by a cop.  It's just your average point A, to point B scenario.   Pessimism never helped anybody though, so let's look at the positives of this new shiny game.  There's better graphics.  You can now look at higher quality garbled images as your sim uses the bathroom, or takes a shower.  You can actually make out the 15 different paintings in the game.  When you're hacking to make money, you can read the same access denied message in "sim language" over and over again, hopelessly trying to decode it.  Now you get to do those same mind-numbing tasks over and over again, because there's an achievement system now.  "Paint 15 paintings and you can sell them for a bit more than you did before."  Really?   No, this version of the Sims didn't cut it for me.  The only thing higher quality repetitious tasks did for me, was make me feel buyer's remorse.  I'm all for JAVA game development, as I am an aspiring JAVA programmer, but simple point-and-click interfaces that need to be repeated hundreds of times just to end up with ~20,000 simoleans a week aren't my idea of fun.  Maybe back in 2000, when I was a little whippersnapper, these interactions would seem fun and interesting to me, as I had never seen a life simulator that was this semi-interesting.  However, after 9 years, after Maxis got bought by EA, after years of JAVA development, I would've expected this game to go a lot further than it has.   *Thumbs Down*  Mike
