I seem to not be the only one with a few substantial problems as I have searched for solutions and haven't found any yet.  The game gives you lots of new items and abilities.  You can now build half walls, and party floors.  There is so much party stuff added, that you will be puking from a hangover because your sims will be partying too much.  I certainly like the vampire system even though I'm not much of a vampire lover, but hey some like it some don't ( it's a good addition).  I like that EA has combined night life with apartments in this expansion.  I also like the celebrity system.  However when it comes to bands, that thing is just broken.  If EA doesn't make a patch for it soon, then this EP is going to waste.  You can start a band, you can have a band, you can get one gig, and your done.  You can't kick people out of your band, except by murdering them(brutal, especially if its your ex wife,ex husband)  you also can't ask anyone to join your band, once you murdered a bandmate, and have an empty spot.  This is the only reason I put the score down to a 6.  Everything else in the game works perfectly fine, but the bands which many people were hoping for just don't f****** work.  So consider what you want before you buy it or download it.  By the way I bought it so its not the files fault, its EA's fault. Overall pluses and minues  + a lot of new content  + being a celebrity is fun  + party places vary, and are interesting  + vampire system improved from sims 2  + apartments, and penthouses, are varied and many  + actor career is a fun addition  + finally added hot tubs   - bands don't work  - can't kick out band mates  - issues combining with ambitions, idk bout world adventures  - because of many details in city if your pc isn't fast enough the game will trip(works fine on mine, but my pc costs 3000, just bought it last month, my friend is complaining though)  - clubs and bars are not as full as shown in trailers  - you can't have hot tubs in apartments, or penthouses  - almost no lots to build on   overall the game is okay, if EA makes a patch for it maybe it will be better, let's hope they make it soon.
