First of all, the Fact that most of the add-ons from Sims 2 expansion packs are not implemented is just punishing and cheap. Secondly the fact that there is no Co-oP or Multiplayer makes the game feel SO stale after playing for more than an hour (I understand no online multiplayer, but Co-oP should have been implemented). Third of all, and worst of all, the 2 things I just mentioned before this will probably come in the form of unnecessary expansion packs like: "The Sims 3- Friends" (Co-oP) or  "The Sims 3-Pets at the Park" or some stupid crap like that, which they could have easily implimented into the game, just another way for Maxis to crank in the bank while making more stank. I am dissapointed in many ways. This game is boring when you boil it down and get past the cute little Sims mulling around blabbering Simish (a formula that has significantly lost its appeal since its release in 2000) and unless you are a person suffering from OCD and are contented by cleaning the tub and kitchen constantly, or someone who loves to fake chat with people speaking like grown babies this game will lose its appeal mucho rapido. If only they added one player extra for a Co-oP style play it would have increased the fun factor and replay-ability immensely, but.. whatever. Not much inovation from a team thats banked on countless expansions. So, in short, unless youre a loner who loves playing single player real life simulation games (get help) with no multiplayer options, other than spending hours making clothes etc.. only to alt+tab to log onto the Sims 3 website to upload them (could the game experience feel anymore corporate?),or unless you are a rich loner who loves spending your skrillah on countless expansions such as *ahem* Sims 2:University, Sims 2:Nightlife, Sims 2:Castaway, Sims 2:Seasons, Sims 2:Pets, Sims 2:Apartment, Sims 2:Free Time, Sims 2:Open For Buisness, Sims 2:Bon Voyage or the ever popular Sims 2:Deluxe *phew* this game will get stale very fast like bread in the hot sun. Maxis needs to give more to their gamers/fans and not create an experience that feels more like 1984 than a fun social game.   The Good...  I  usually dont go out of my way to give bad games credit for the things they got right but I guess I will this time. The graphics and animation (espescially the facial) are very smooth, vibrant and inviting. The free roaming sand box style and the more goal oriented gameplay make the experience much more alive and active. That is all.. lol
