I'd first like to clearify that this is NOT an expansion to the Sims 3, despite what the only other review for this here says - it is a stuff pack.  Expansions add new features and items, while a stuff pack only adds items.  Do not confuse this with an expansion like World Adventures.   With that said, this stuff pack is difficult to rate due to what it is - just a disc or digital download with items on it.   In the past Sims game, stuff packs often contained several "themes" of items, with "Teen Style" stuff containing surfer, goth, and preppie style of objects to match the current style trends of your teenage Sims.  High End Loft Stuff is honest to its name, as it does contain high-end loft items, but that is about it.  You get a few electronics, furnature items, some build items, and some outfits of what EA deeps the "high-end loft" style and that's it - no other "styles" of items are included.  EA could have included a different but still modern style in addition to the one in the pack, perhaps also an industrial-turned-modern style, which is what I see often in modern loft designs, or perhaps something completely new and unique.  The pack does include a few "anniversary" items that do add a slight change to the game, such as the vibrating heart bed (since no other beds vibrate at the moment), the electric guitar (a godsend IMO, since the only other guitar available before was the acoustic), and the aquarium, which allows you to display your fishing catches side-by-side in something other than the old fishing bowl, but I honestly do not think the anniversary items and the modern loft items added up to being worth the $20 EA wants you to pay for them.  Especially when you see all of the item sets being released in the store, such as the Ultra Lounge set, which would have fit perfectly into the High End Loft stuff pack.    The EA store is really what makes this stuff pack look bad, and that is because of the precedence the EA store set for items. EA could have added in several of the popular and somewhat-related store items into the pack, but that would have caused problems that would definitely draw the ire of the already-generally-demoralized player base: players who already bought those items would be paying to buy them AGAIN, thus causing them to be penalized for buying the items whent hey wanted them and not waiting for them to hopefully be released in a stuff pack at a lesser price.   Another problem caused by the EA Store that ruins this stuff pack is the price of items on it.  $1 = 100 points.  The full "Regal Living" set costs 2,400 points, or $24 dollars, for 41 items, all of which are of the same style.  Most of the items are furnature variants made for the style, windows and doors that match, but not much else.  As stated before, previous stuff packs often contained several themed sets of items, but to get a full set of items costs anywhere from $10-$25, depending on the items contained.  This means that, were the Teen Style stuff pack of the Sims 2 translated into the store's prices, it would most likely have cost $60+ dollars!  This precedent means that EA can really only release one style of item into a stuff pack and still have consistent prices on items without overtly punishing a EA store user or the stuff pack buyer.   Another thing that makes this stuff pack look bad is the appearantly lack of "extra goodies."  Past stuff packs had hidden goodies like new song tracks for the radio, new shows to be shown on the TVs, new games to play on the game consoles, and so on.  I haven't played the Sims much since I got the stuff pack, primarily due to the fact that I bought the stuff back via digital download, so playing the game without a disk makes it very slow and choppy (a problem I encounter in the past when I bought stuff packs via digital download and therefore didn't have a disk to run the "newest version" of the Sims 2 off of), but from what I have played I have no noticed any new songs, shows, etc, although I might have missed them entirely, which in turn makes the new stuff pack seem not-so-new.   EA has a slew of irate gamers ready to stop playing the Sims 3 altogether.  The base game was not quite finished like a released game should, the expansion pack introduced a slew of new bugs that made the game unplayable for some for a long time (not myself, but I have read the angry forums posts), and the Sims 3's first stuff pack has less stuff than it should.   How does EA fix the store problem?  First, reduce the price of items on the store.  100 points for a single couch or lounge chair, 75 points for a shirt, and 100 points for a single hairstyle is just to much.  The store periodically does have sales on items, but these sale just aren't good enough to justify their purchase in my eye, and are often on items that aren't all that interesting.  Furthermore, the store needs to give reductions on "sets" of items.  As far as I know, and correct me if I am wrong, "sets" of items merely cost the sums of their item's point costs - there is no savings for buying them "in bulk."  Lastly, if EA where actually be kind to their base and reduce the price of items, they should refund a portion of the points people already used to buy items so that they are not screwed over for buying the items before the price alterations.  The system already remembers which items you bought, so it would not be hard to refund a portion of the point cost of each item to the buyer to be used on future purchases.  But hey, EA has a good thing going on right now for them, and I have bought some of the items in the store because many of them really are great, so I doubt anything will change anytime soon.   (I apologize if some of this seemed like less of a review and more of an opinionated rant suitable for a blog instead, but I felt that those reading here before decided whether to buy this stuff pack or not should at least consider these points.)
