EA announced recently that every game in the world that they'll ever make MUST have downloadable content with them. It is on this basis as to why I have concluded that the sims 3 feels stripped.   Ah, said the man in the video box review. This is so you will buy expansion packs in the future to make your game better. Lets step back a few paces shall we? When the sims 2 came out, I always felt that it was a compitent all be it repetitive game, where everything in it could be done in real life. But it was a full game. The sims 3 oomphs up the formula to such a degree that even I had to finally concede I enjoyed it. I enjoyed going to one family then flying off to another to play them for a bit and then going back to find prior said family were now 90 something. That was good. But the game feels as I said incomplete. And like I said before, this is the future. Things should be better. I shouldn't have to buy half the new content for a game that I paid full prive for, all the content should be there.    For starters, lets go to the neighbourhood aspect. In sims 2, you could build entire neighbourhoods by yourself. Huzzah. In the sims 3 you cannot. This feature is torn out of the game for no clear reason, and that was my favourite feature by far. I liked building individual sections of the town, designing rich areas, poor areas, starting areas extreme areas, fish pond areas a pie, but the sims 3 took all that out, and whilst yes you can indeed still design all said areas, you can't put them in your own town anymore. It's someone elses town that doesn't feel quite right to me and no matter how many pie houses you build you can never trully make it yours. It's bizzare.   The sims are alot more customizable, where you can now adjust the eyelids in every single sim (no joke) and the personalities reflect more on real life and as a result you can get sims who are more varied and interesting peoples. I have no complaint about this, but it falls into the stripped hole. You see, once you build them, there is LESS to do with them than in prior sims games. So you have a more complex charachter who does alot less then previous characters. You could take them down to the local barabeque, on dates, (hetro, homo or otherwise), to graves, but couldn't you do that before? And there is less to do there than before. All you do is click a button to send them to THA PLACE and they go in, do stuff for a bit then return to THA HOUSE! where they bone THA SPOUSE and make THA KIDS (or otherwise). There is no change from tha aspect. There are many more sociable clicks to do this, but as I've said, IT'S LESS THAN BEFORE!   You know what i was expecting maxis to bring the best bits over. I was expecting to have the interior of buildings to play in on days out and the uni parts (they were cool). But they're not there. It would have made the game better, but instead, it's just dull. I paid £35 for half a game. If you want to pay about £100 for the full thing, then hooray for you and your well off job, but I'll stick to playing things the normal way thanks.
