The first time you pick up The Sims 3, it's usually under the "Simulation" index. Sometimes it's under RPG, hell sometimes it's in the interactive dating section, but not usually otherwise it'd put people off the game well and truly. Unless your a sort of freaky nerd looking for some virtual action. The fact is that The Sims 3 isn't constricted to any of these genres. Nor is it constricted to any number of hybrid genres. I propose to you, ladies and gentleman, that this game isn't a game at all.   For a game to accomplish this amazing feat, It usually has to be Call Of Duty Black Ops. I.e full of scripted sequences, cut-scenes and control is constantly removed from the player. Thats right, I just bad mouthed the final five minutes of Black Ops. But The Sims is the most interactive game in todays industry I hear some of you say. I may be the first to notice this but there is a fine line between a good amount of interactivity, take for example Deus Ex, and a bad amount, Battlefield 3's singleplayer campaign.    All in all, The Sims 3 is a lighthearted game, although it quickly becomes a chore for most things (SCREW YOU CHEAP TOILET I'M NOT CLEANING YOU SO MY SIM CAN TAKE A CRAP). Some of the humour is great. There are some awe inspiring moments (Sims first kiss. Sniff. They grow up so fast. It was only six days ago that he was born). This game is graphically superior and the game runs smoother.   In these final words, I wish for you to read carefully. The Sims 3 is not a game. The game is far to interactive for it's own good, you may think that's what I'm saying and it is. But also because it is one of the least interactive games as well. After clicking on a few things, you have your sim's list full across the top of the screen, take a dump, dinner, shower and sleep for about ten hours. What do you do then. If it's me I leave my computer and get a drink or take a piss. In addition to that, there are only about five moments in the game where there are exiting things happening. Be it a fire, or a fight whatever. However, how do you play The Sims, do you actually watch everything your Sim does like a creepy stalker. Do you leave after you set his work level to "casual".    I ask you these final questions in hope that you see The Sims 3 for what It actually is. And to be honest, I haven't figured it out yet.
