The first time I played the Sims 3, I was fully engrossed. After a while, I wondered about a more realistic experience. Such as one where all buildings could be properly entered and the control of cars. Sims 3 has a lot of things in it to love, but also a lot of things to hate. The exceptionally large environment to explore is beautiful, but the traffic is horrible. Cars zooming unrealisticly fast through eachother is extremely annoying.   Since the Sims franchise is the best selling pc game of all time, I shall only summarize the basic part of its contents (hopefully you all know this franchise). You create a sim, build or buy a house, get a job, get into a relationship of some kind, and generate children. Then your original sim dies, and you control his/her children and repeat the above process. This game makes life look simple.   What the Sims 3 adds is being able to enter any enter-able building without a single second loading. There are also more skills to learn, as far as I am aware, as well as different ways to make money, other than having a job. Writing is one money making skill, while growing and selling plants is another. I nearly forgot about the customization. This new feature makes it possible for your sim's clothes, houses and cars to be truly unique. Its a powerfull tool, because it means you can even create your own patterns if you know how.    The new create-a-sim feature is far more diverse than before, such as sliders for skin colour, body build and other things. Also, you can now alter the pitch of your sim's voice, as well as grant him/her five traits. It adds new flavor and lets you create a truly unique sim. What disappoints me is the limited hair styles. It makes it impossible for me to make me. Here is the curly hair? The limited variety may be to make people buy the new hair styles in the online store. What they should have done is added different types of hair, like curly hair, dreadlocks, chinese hair etc. Not only long straight hair.   The game feels and plays very similar to Sims and Sims 2 in my opinion. I found myself giving the same orders: take a bath, watch tv, play on the computer. I felt the repeditiveness very easily. That should bring up the question: how is playing exactly what happens in real life fun? Until now, I don't now the answer. So the point is that EA seems to have run out of ideas for the game. Sure, an open environment is new to the franchise, but you can hardly explore far before your sim gets too tired. This means that most of the time will probably be spent in the house.   This is not bad, as building your own unique house is very fun. It is similar to older games, but it is still quite a fun experience. There are a few added features, such as the veranda and the design-your-own-roof feature. Not to mention an increased amount of floors. Other than those, not much else is different about house building. Buying new furnishure and other things at the online store seems like a bit of a rip-off to me. Doesn't EA already have enough money?   The graphics are nice, but to me, graphics are only a minor part of a game's goodness. The world and everything around it is comical, colourful and lovely looking. It works well with such a clownish silly game like Sims 3. The audio was a bit buggy, as several minutes, even seconds, into the game and the music shuts down. Though this problem is now fixed, back in its release this bug was present. It is also proof that this game is a large bit better with its music on.   The real enjoyment of this game does not rest with graphics or audio or buying new items online, but rather if one still likes Sims. There looks like little that can be improved in this game. It seems to have reached its full potenial. Sure, all buildings could be made enter-able, and cars won't drive through eachother, but would it make a big difference in if you find pleasure in the game or not? No, it seems more like... the end of the Sims franchise to me!
