A couple of weeks have passed since The Sims 3: World Adventures came out. With a strong fanbase and an idea that easily inspires the inner creators within us all, yet another expansion in The Sims franchise comes as no surprise. Despite this having been said, there are some notable differences to be found in World Adventures. Unfortunately, not all of the said changes are positive ones.   If you haven't heard it by now, World Adventures is an experience that is meant to break away from the "content packs" that were slapped with an expansion tag in the series past. In this, EA did not fall short. The newest addition to the franchise includes three whole new locations for you to explore. Each has a unique feel to it and it isn't just cosmetic. The places to visit and the Sims to meet are respectively cultured to their location. From France, to Egypt, and even going as far as China, there is a lot to see and do in World Adventures. You may choose to use the expansion as a means for your Sims to simply get away from their everyday lives in the form of a vacation. Alternatively, the challenges and "quests" presented to you in these new locales are likely to draw your focus.   There is a lot to be said about the gameplay for World Adventures. It is far more goal-oriented as opposed to the sandbox experience offered by the core game of The Sims 3. Yet despite these pleasent departures from the familiar, it has not come at a cost. To be blunt: The game is packed with bugs. As if that wasn't bad enough, some of these glitches were/are downright game breaking. A couple of patches were released to fix the worst of these issues but you can't help but feel as if the folks at EA needed another month or two for proper testing. Even now, the game is plagued by random game crashes and incompatability problems.   The flaws of the expansion, sadly, are rooted far deeper than the gameplay. Graphically speaking, the game still looks quite good. There are some moments of awkward clipping and the animations of the Sims are sometimes cluttered in close quarters, but that is by no means detrimental to the potential of World Adventures. It is the bugs. If you happen to own an Nvidia graphics card with up-to-date graphic drivers, you may be among the unfortunate majority who are encountering random crashes. It is surprising that after so much time of being out on sale, a patch hasn't been released to address this issue. It is simply unreasonable to expect people to revert to old graphics drivers so they can play this game and fix MOST of the expansions crashes and lockups.   Despite all of the expansions shortcomings, the sound is perhaps one of a handful of things that haven't been broken in some way. Simlish is obviously the universal language of the games inhabitants and the music still has that quirky cuteness to it. Even the additions of sound were done reasonably well, adding to the serene locations of the Sims world. And there's nothing quite as satisfying as solving a bunch of simple puzzles only to hear that dramatic victory theme play as your Sim approaches its hard-earned loot.   Until World Adventures gets the proper patching that it desperately needs, it is the humble opinion of this reviewer that you stay away from this game at least for the time being. The "big bugs" are supposedly dead but 'less you want to risk your Sims (And your hard work. Some of these glitches are known to corrupt save files and/or cause unreversible damage to your creations), it simply isn't worth it at this time. EA had the right idea when they came up with World Adventures. They just haven't been able to follow through.   Dated: December 04, 2009 
