So it is really a long time ago that I have played the Sims 1. When the Sims 2 came out, then everyone took notice of this game because it had sweet looking graphics and the utter most brainless gameplay. And now the Sims 3 has reared its ugly head to the public, and for a whopping 50 bucks you get much less than you paid for.   I had to help my sister to install this game, and to register it online so she could download an additional town. I cringe at the fact that she is playing this game on my old Core 2 Duo gaming rig which she got when I built a new system, but from what I see the game runs just fine on older hardware, with no hick ups what so ever. Now when curiosity got the better of me I decided to see how this game compares to its predecessors.   And I knew this coming. Almost nothing has changed. Sure the free roaming aspect is a nice touch, but is poorly implemented and very hard to maneuver following your Sim across town and so forth, this take a lot out of the enjoyment. You are still pretty much centered around your house, trying to find furniture and stuff like that. The content has been stripped down to its bare bones, and I can only think how EA will start making expansions real soon, so they can cash in on that. The whole Sims 2 scenario will repeat itself once more, and you will see expansions which are so tedious and moronic that it is hard to explain how people can get brainwashed into buying stuff like: Sims pets and Sims university which add almost nothing to the game and still charge you the full price for it.    So after giving this game a try I quickly realized that it was the Sims 2 with a slight graphical update and a "free" roaming aspect which was more confusing than beneficial, you can't even go in to buildings such as hospitals or fire stations, they have no interior to explore, which really is pathetic. They could at least have thrown in more detail.   So to conclude this review; Sims 3 is for those Sims fanatics who enjoy watching virtual depictions of themselves sleep, eat and go about  their business, without any form of excitement or real thrill. This is why I cannot see the Sims being an entertaining game. People ought to play games which simulate scenarios that are not a part of everyday human life. So to me it is pointless playing a human simulation game, why not go out in real life and meet new people or start working out if you want to improve your body and not sit in front of the damn computer screen simulating it. Oh and I almost forgot my sister has stopped playing the game, due to the fact that she understood that this game really had nothing special to offer. Now instead she play "real" games such as Quake Live, UT2k4 and Mirror's Edge. Games that are there to give you hours of fun, and not to poorly simulate real life.  
