The Sims 3 is a good game but it now seems that EA are a total sell-out. They just want to get more money from us so that's why some of their games are crappy these days. Don't get me wrong though, The Sims 3 is a very cool game but it just feels like they didn't put in that much content on purpose so we would have to waste money on crappy expansions coming out in a few months. There is a lot of content in Sims 3 but it just feels wrong, since Sims 2 had much more of it (maybe even without the expansions). So this game might feel like a waste of money but you shouldn't look at it that way if you want to enjoy playing it.The Sims 3 still has the graphics which are like in a game from 2003 or something, but this time, they're actually good to look at it. Nah, I'm just kidding, the graphics are still crap for 2009 but they are good enough. So far, this game might sound like a TOTAL PIECE OF.... poo. But it isn't. There is lots of customization in The Sims 3, you can actually change the textures of everything in game! Furniture, stuff around your house (decorations and everything you can buy), cars, bikes, clothes. This time though, you can actually make a unique sim! The tools to change your characters are really cool and detailed, though there could be a lot more clothes and of course better hairstyles to choose from.The main goal of the game, is to achieve your sim's life goal/wish/thing. This part of the game is really good, because after you "create" your sims' personalities, you will get to choose one out of three life goals, which your sim will have to achieve through their life. Sounds fun, but after you do so (which can take some time) there is pretty much nothing left for you to do. Of course, you can just create hundreds of other characters with different life goals and complete each of their stories but that will just get very, very, VERY boring.If you've always enjoyed simulations and playing The Sims games, then buy this game without hesitation but otherwise stay away from it, because you might consider it a waste of time.OVERALL RATING – 7.5/10 (Good)NEW GS RATING – 7/10
