Meh. Just Meh.  I was expecting SO much more from this game.  First, let's talk about game play issues:  Just disappearing when going to a movie, restaurant, or store? We got to go to nightclubs and open/ run business with ours sims before. I was expecting to be able to control sims in their regular jobs too, at least. Ok, "blahblahblah live action city will blow your computer up blahblahblah". But, well, I don't like it either.  The only good thing about the new city system is: no loading times. Yay, finally. But this active family thing isn't as organized and simple as: click the house to play.  Also, you spend some time playing with another family only to discover your first sim is living with an unknown old woman and have a child... Somehow. And they removed the memories system, so you can just sit there with no clue of what the heck happened.   Ok, now, about the "new" factor...   Everybody was talking about "oh-so-amazing personality modifiers". Seriously? I was thinking about personality getting shaped by your actions. It's not like we don't have the technology...  Graphics don't impress. New features don't impress. Actually, it's really a step back from The Sims 2. Cars disappearing and being stored in you inventory (lolwhut?) while you're away and not using it, community lots visits are mostly entering, waiting for sim to finish doing whatever he's doing, leave. Flowers to the garden are ugly. Swimming pool has no trampoline. Where's the f*cking piano? And I could go on and on.   And I KNOW why it's so bad right now. Because we need to buy expansions.  Back in Sims 1, it really looked like they where having new ideas to implement coll new stuff to the game, and releasing expansions to do so. Everybody was happy.  Sims 2 was followed (and really FAST followed) by a lot of expansion packs which were very similar to the first ones. (hot date is to night life as vacation is to bon voyage). In addiction, some stuff packs, since adding content seemed to please a lot of people in Sims 1.  Now we have little to no content in the Sims3, and a online shop for more stuff. I say two, maybe tree mouths before Livin'n Large/University similar expansion pack to come out.   We see what you're doing there, EA. And it does not please us at all.  You people would make a lot more money if you just did things right. You haven't done it all yet. There are a lot of features to add in future expansion packs besides just re-publish the same "new" features over and over. I agree the base game can't have 8 expansion's content. But it didn't had to be THIS bare.
