Where to start. I have been a fan of the sims since pc to ps2 to xbox 360. I believe the best game ever for the sims on console is Sims 2 on the Ps2. This game is lacking alot.Graphics are ok, free will is good.Your sims still do funny things. While it has introduce new concepts to the game like visiting your neighbor across the street or, changing the color of wall paper as well as other custom color fabrics and objects ,it still lacks fun. It may still have the basic game play but they change a few things. It  takes away some of the fun from previous sim games. If you're like me ,and hate clicking on a spot and having your sim walk there. I rather the old way from ps2 Sims 2 game where you manually control their direction. We can no longer create a family and try to move one sim out the house whole without getting the whole family deleted from the game. We can't go shopping and see our sim buy and look at stuff. Instead they walk in to the building, we wait, and then they come back out. How fun is that? It's the same way for work, or any other places your sim wants to go. Load times makes me want to kick myself.  I'm use to getting custom content for my sim game , if you are signed in to xbox live there is a option to download striaght from sims 3 exchange for custom content . Which is a cool option but don't expect much. The only thing i found cool enough to download is the cars. So all my sims look the same . There are not enough option to really make your sim look like you. Also the skin color got on my nerves for some reason they don't know what black people look like, so the darker skin tones look kinda pastey like. I also played sims 3 on the Pc slightly better but again i was able to download better skin tones. Oh big problem none of your female sims have breast. Some parents complain, now we all have to be flat chested ladies. The swim suits makes you wanna cry.This is one reason i can't get my sim to look like me. I wouldn't recommend this game at all. It's ok for a sims collector but not for a Sims Pc Fan! SORRY
