I bought this game about a year after it's release. I've been playing ever since; however, not everyday. The more I play this game, the more it disappoints me. I will first state my PROS. The graphics in the Sims 3 are much better than the graphics in the Sims 2. Surprisingly, this is my only PRO. Now, on to the CONS. In The Sims and The Sims 2, it was much easier to lie down a lot and build a house because there was so much space and in The Sims 2 about two or three worlds were given. The Sims 3 only gives one world, other worlds have to be purchased, and most of the space is used by rabbit holes or already laid houses. There is little space to lie down more buildings. You can renovate your world but not all of the land is flat and making it flat requires patience. In The Sims 2, you could see your Sims work. In The Sims 3 it is quite the opposite. Your sim will go to work but you cannot see any work they will do; You will only be notified that they are working. This was a huge disappoint for me. In The Sims and the Sims 2, almost every item in the game you could use or your sim could use. There were only very few items for display, such as statues or plants. In The Sims 3, there are many items that cannot be put to use in this game. For example; the powder bar (I forgot the name but it is located under items for the bathroom). In The Sims 2, babies were to be changed on a bar very similar to the powder but in The Sims 3 they are changed in the air. In The Sims 2, dirty diapers were left behind and so was messy baby food and bottles. Babies are a handful. The game-play is more realistic in The Sims 2 than in The Sims 3. Another example is the cash register. Placing a cash register will not result to Sims working or the fact that you cannot hire and fire. The whole business/working aspect is a complete miss in this game. The action in this game is a miss also. I liked when the Sims would have their first kiss or get married, the screen would show a brief moment of their happiness. By the way when the Sims get married, in the Sims 3,   there isn't a preacher to wed them only an arch. There isn't even a wedding cake available. There's only one buffet table but there isn't a chef. I bought the Sims generation expansion pack because I thought it would fill these lacking elements...I was wrong. Completely wrong! Speaking of lacking elements, there isn't a butler available either. Simple things that were available in the previous editions are pulled from this game so you have to purchase (BUY) these objects on The Sims 3 site i.e the wedding cake and other buffet tables. A sim can gain skill to play the guitar but cannot sing unless you buy The Showtime Expansion pack. The guitar is the only instrument available. In The Sims 2, there was also a piano and the chance for your sim to sing without the purchase of any expansion packs. The more expansion packs I buy, the more I start to dislike the game. The expansion packs are to expand the game but instead they only add a few more objects, maybe a skill, and more rabbit holes. The expansion packs to the previous editions really expanded the game. For example, In one expansion pack, you can invent. Which is pretty cool but it's very limited; especially in action. A sim can invent a drill but only drills holes. What's the point of watching your sim drill a hole only to find more scraps and gems? Also there is a genie available in the ambitions expansion pack, the genie only grants few wishes and there are only a few things to wish about. Once the genie grants the wish, only a small segment of action happens and that is it! The buildings, such as a salon and tattoo parlor, are useless in the Sims 3. I was expecting for these additions to change the game play. I thought I would be able to see a sim give another sim a makeover or do another Sims hair. Negative, Your sim steps on the block in front of the mirror only for you to change his appearance. You can do that with a base mirror in your own home. The tattoo part is OK. But it still needs updating. The Sims 3 lacks creativity. Call me picky...but I like to see my sim use all of its objects. If there's a candle, I'd like to see my sim light it. If there's magazines, I'd like to see my Sims read them. If there's a clothing rack in a shop, I'd like to see my sim be able to try on and buy clothes. If there's a cash register, I'd like to see my Sims be able to work. if there's toilet paper, i'd like to see my sim use it. The Sims 3 needs more useful objects. The light up dance floor isn't available not even in the ambitions or showtimes expansion pack. Also This game heats up my computer and causes it to shut off. The more you add, the more it slows. I hope things are better for the Sims 4. However, I'm sure they will make you purchase things that should already be loaded onto the came. I'm still a hardcore Sims fan just a disappointed buyer.
