												TL;DRI would not buy this game if I hadn't already.  But I would advise people playing it.  Make of that what you will.  Simply because of the creators who actually put their heart into aspects of this game and because of modders who really make it shine; this is a fun game to play and worth the time.  It is NOT worth ANY money."But why?"  You might ask.  The extremely long rant to follow are *some* (not all, I am just tired of writing) my reasons:This is a love hate thing with the Sims 3.  I was so addicted to Sims 2 I lost whole days sitting in front of my computer planning out their day to day routines and hoping that they actually did well.  (I know a lot of simmers just want the absolutely worst outcomes and love either killing and/or torturing their poor Sims) But this game changed that a little.  I still don't have a bunch of murder, sex or terror mods that make their lives truly miserable, but I don't care near as much for the characters I make or choose to play, I don't have much of a connection to them and sometimes I just stop caring and walk away leaving them to do their own thing until I just save and exit.  Sims 3 lost a lot of charm Sims 2 had and honestly, I blame this entirely on EA's way of thinking which seriously tanked in the customer help department about the same time.  It also began to be called the worst company every year and so on and so on.  The game is pushed more and more for microtransations and not much else now.  Especially with the upcoming Sims 4.  Microtransactions are a good thing, do not get me wrong please.  These are very small purchases someone can make with real money online to pay for all different types of digital goodies to use in game.  For most things this is a term MMORPGs use and they sell cosmetic things.  Outfits, pets, mounts, hair, etc. etc.  With games like Team Fortress 2 this has not only kept the game alive, but brought forth an entirely new type of community where artists and creators come together to make outstanding creations which the community can then vote on and the original creators can make real money from their serious effort and hard work; hand in hand with the original game's creators to make something entirely new.  This idea has even started to be embraced by MMORPGs such as EQ2 which now has their own type of workshop where players can now create things for that game.  It goes on and on and on how awesome microtransactions can be for a game, bring it back to life and keep it ticking with new content and eye candy for everyone.   It's even been how some companies now fund the next expansion, start new servers or how they are able to further polish their games.Sims 3 though went and tore this concept apart (as far as I am concerned) and with Sim Points introduced a new low in this field.  Sim points are nothing new, the way they are handled in Sims 3 though is.  If you want to buy a certain type of object that has new animations and/or has an actual use in the game that would change it at all; then you cannot just buy that item but actually have to spend more money than you would just buying a stuff pack alone.  These things are usually leaning towards harassing the player even in their game to buy the items.  Everything with Sims 3 is an add to buy something else in Sims 3 and it never stops even when the player is playing.  You can turn these options off but let's look at the key point for EA: Sell items to little girls playing.  Mostly these little girls do not understand the value of a dollar, do not understand what EA is about or how little they could care.  I'm not saying a lot of companis are bleeding hearts but it's more than obvious that EA takes the cake when it comes to giving their customers the finger.  On top of all of this, there are the bug and game stopping glitches.  I want to state first of all, ALL GAMES WILL HAVE BUGS AND GLITCHES ALL OF THE TIME ON ANY CONSOLE OR PC NO MATTER WHAT.  Even Mario still has glitches!  It doesn't matter, games cannot be 100% polished at all times, it is not possible.  But game breaking glitches that either force the player to stop playing, do not allow the player to continue to play or break the game entirely, ruin the save or even break itself; are out of the question!  Especially for such a large company!  Every time a Stuff or Expansion pac has come out, there is always a game breaking glitch that does one or more of these things.  Late Night is a great example.  Mysteriously players suddenly had a horrible time trying to please or even sometimes control their Sims.  Sims would be unhappy no matter what the players did.  They would stay bright red day and night, become incresibly ticked off at all times, divorce one another without the player being able to stop it, kids would be taken away.  No one knew what was happening or how to stop it.  As it turns out, it was the beds.  For some unknown reason beds weren't working correctly in games.  They would cause the characters to become more and more upset until someone finally made a mod fixing this glitch.  The game breaking glitch was fixed well *after* Christmas, months after the game came out and the glitch was made aware by players on the forums of Sims 3.  Simply because the game wasn't tested enough nor were the customers heard. Game breaking glitches and huge annoyances adding to lag and unplayable situations are still in the game today even though Sims 4 has been announced and you can even pre-order it though they only have a handful of screenshots and a video that they have also stated will change.  They make it so obvious that everything is only about money that they forgot the simple truth.  This is a game for kids and adults alike.  This is a learning machine for everyone and a fun experience to boot.  I would suggest playing the game.  With the right mods (Google NRAA Sims 3) this game is really fun.  It is very time consuming and if you are willing to face a serious challenge, (unless you don't want that you can always mod it too!) at least with your time, than I would suggest this.  It is a LOT easier than Sims 2, make of that what you will (if you played).  You do not need to know anything at all about Sims 2 to play this either which is another plus.  Although the cow plant is brought back and I adored that as well.  Yes it still eats Simmies.  Sims 2 was a huge challenge money and happiness wise, this is more of a "how much time are you willing to sit and grab achievements online, skill up, etc." type of thing.			
