												Ok my play time doesn't actually show how many hours I've sank into this game just how many I'v accumlated to buy extra content from steam on the cheap. First off your sims 3 codes you buy off Steam now works with EA origins. This is important if you previously own sims packs. Steam makes you buy another copy of the Sims 3 to buy the extra content. Not cool steam its livable. On the good note; during the steam mega sales you can pick up more content for about 4.99 - 9.99. I have all expansions all store content and am missing only one world and a handful of stuff packs. In general I love this game. I've owned it since it came out. Purchased most of my content pre-steam and amazed how cheep you can get stuff for now.  I've scored most of the store content by watching adds on EA and about all my content was purchased for free.  Now that steam has its new controller I am slowly migrating my content onto steam. This is the only sandbox you will ever play that lets you actually make your own video game in whatever style you want. You download the world creator tool and you have hours of interesting things you can do with your game. Program in story lines and challanges for your sims and you have a whole new game. You have the ability to generate maps and new worlds. You get mod content and the sky is the limit.  Lets face facts the sims 3 is just wierd and its not for everyone. How many games do you know that allow you to have ninjas who work as a perfessional jockeys riding unicorns and only eat tofu cheesesteaks?  Now for some of the negative reviews I'm reading. I'm running a top of the line graphics card I play the game on highest levels. I do not have the new nvidia pascals. Only a 970. I have no issues at all. Most of the people who are griping do not realize that there internet cache actually plays a roll on how well the game runs when its in online mode. You donot have to use online mode unless your working on showtime achievements or your planning on buying something in game.  All players need to regularly clean out internet explorer even if you don't use internet explorer to maintain a healthy game.  Because it is how the game originally connect to EA. Most of the lagging etc comes from IE beeing the worst of all the browsers and no ability to change this in your code.  Another issue is too many expansion and stuff packs on at one time. While I run all expansions and all my content most pcs are not capable of doing this. EA suggest limiting how many packs if you want quicker load times.  I don't bother because I use a special mod called Overwatch that peserves the integrity of my game by optimizing the game in other ways that EA didn't think of. Mostly by removing lost sims stray horses and animals and cars that your sims careless forget to drive back home to there houses.  This makes the who game run much smoother and keeps the game from becomming currupt do to user neglect/error.  Mods make this game you can find nearly any type of mod you can imagine. I highly recommend anyone who has ever played minecraft or similar games to give this one a try.			
