I'm sorry I just don't get it.  I don't understand how anybody could like this game better than ME1.  I guess the visual style was sleeker?  People thought the controls and fighting mechanics were better?  Here's what I've come to realize.  Mass Effect was a great RPG, with some action/3PS (3rd person shooter?) elements mixed in.  Mass Effect 2, was an action game at heart, with some pretty shoddy RPG elements.  Gone are the multiple tiers and classes of armor, with corresponding types and tiers of upgrades.  Gone is any tactical setup of your squad for combat.  Just spam all of the abilities you can at the enemy.  Gone is a much more detailed and better implemented leveling point system.  And gone is planetary exploring, which I think would have been cooler if they fleshed it out instead of getting rid of it entirely.  People say the combat in ME2 was better.  Not to me.  I read all the codex.  What they had implemented in 1 made sense with the lore.  Didn't like overheating?  Too bad, get a *better weapon* or *better upgrades*.  Jesus it's called customizability.  That's what an RPG is all about.  There were some *really* cool things they implemented in 2, however.  So here is the good part of the review.  Just the plain fact that you could actually continue a character on from 1 was amazing to me.  However, I thought ME2's characters were better than 1's anyway, so I'm glad you got to work with an almost entirely new cast.  (Although they kept my favorite Quarian :D.)  Planet scanning was also way better than that side quest to find minerals from ME1, and I appreciated that you could actually integrate resources you find into your ship and customizing your character.  Although once again, I would appreciate more options.  Finally, there were things I thought were better and worse about the story.  I really liked the loyalty missions, but I think it would have been better to have a central questline instead of making the loyalty missions the central component of the game.  The problem here was that the story lacked focus, as there was literally no plot up until the end when you finally did the suicide mission (which was awesome!!!)  ME1, by comparison, had an extremely focused central questline, but lacked in detailing the side characters perhaps a little bit more.  So that's pretty much it for this review.  Overall, I think what really got to me was that they took what was supposed to be an RPG series and kinda did away with all that.  I didn't appreciate that very much.  But since I am all about story, I will say that Mass Effect continues to have a strong story and character design, just perhaps not at the same time.  I am still looking forward to ME3.
