This game really has to get two scores.  If you play on normal difficulty, like I did my first play through, then it's great.  Great story, game play, action, character depth, pretty much does everything right and it earns a solid 8.  Play it the second play through on Insanity difficulty and suddenly its a game riddled with bugs and as such id score it a 1.  Buggy games drive me crazy and I think far far less of an otherwise good game for having them.  What causes this discrepancy?  On the top level of difficulty the enemies hit hard, really hard.  This means you have to act fast and use cover, always, every time.  Two problems pop up, first when you turn quickly your character will have a tendency to become detached from the game world and float in the air or suddenly get stuck on top of objects.  This doesn't happen all the time, but enough to be called repeatable and definitive.  Second problem is cover.  While on normal the few times you ducked and hid it probably worked fine.  Now, you are ducking and hiding everywhere, fast and frequently.  This causes the many surfaces to reveal their true nature where your character will not hide completely and you'll get shot through an object, or your character won't lean out the correct direction and you'll be left open to get shot.  There are many many glitched cover surfaces that cause a variety of issues with game play.  Besides that there are also a few other bugs present like quests that you can't complete that don't end up affecting anything and also a game killing bug where your game will have a critical crash and close if you change your ability hot keys in combat (there is a quick hotkey UI with bad programming).  These very prevalent bugs cause the game heavy problems because they get you killed when you should otherwise be alive.  So, all told id give the game a 4.  Great story, so so game play that is very dependent on the difficulty setting as to how decent it is and released, yet never fixed, with a repeatable bug that will cause a fatal error.
