As a person who's played Mass Effect 2 both on the PS3 and PC, I have all rights to say that with me being a dedicated fan to the franchise, this never stood up to be the proper sequel to Mass Effect 1 everyone wanted to be. Sure it's good compared to Mass Effect 3, but let's forget that disaster for a moment and get down to what Mass Effect 2 had, and what it shouldn't have had. First of all, the PC Port is pretty bad. I mean I am glad that aiming with the mouse works as it should, but binding Sprint/Interact/Cover all to the same button? What happened to the special treatment Mass Effect 1 got for PC? None of that is there, and the game really suffers greatly from having sprint and cover on the same button as you find yourself locking into cover while trying to retreat from the enemies, leaving you completely exposed to their gunfire while you go through the animations of getting out of cover again. Mass Effect 1 had you just pressing against cover without the need of button presses, and allowed you to crouch in cover too. What happened to all of that? Now the removal of overheat and grenades are for balance, I can understand that and honestly I wasn't bothered by it as much as I could've been, however, the in-world explanation is just so damn stupid I can't imagine how BioWare managed to laugh up the fact that it would be a good idea to choose that over the overheat system. A lot of missions are repetitive, which is something all three entries suffer greatly from. While Mass Effect 2 at least varies its' environments, half of the loyalty missions and sidequests consist of nothing but mindless shooting with 2 minute long cutscenes at the start and end trying to justify why it made sense to enter a gunfight, and sadly here Mass Effect 2 doesn't fare any better than any other third person shooter. If you were dumb enough to play as Soldier, you're gonna get the bore of your life as this game is all about biotics and tech, so there are some classes which are absolutely boring to play as compared to others. My personal favorite was Vanguard, which I think was amazing to play as and I had a good time playing through the game. Dialogue wise, it was outstanding, the story is well told and executed surprisingly well looking at the state of gaming back then. The interrupts were a great addition and you can't criticize Mass Effect 2 for its lack of dialogue. This game executes its characters really well and does an excellent job immersing you in the story and making your personal morale affect what choices you make in the game. Top notch! Last but not least, the save game system, which was meh at best. You'd get some letters from people or extra dialogue, however you don't miss a lot not having a Mass Effect 1 save game ready. Overall though, this game is really flawed in comparison to Mass Effect 1. A 4 is the brutally honest rating I'd give this game, because as far as it fares against its predecessor, it's cons largely obscure its pros, merely for the fact that Mass Effect 1 offered almost all of that too.
