 First off I don't like giving 10s to games because it makes me feel like a fanboy. But when I've spent the last two weeks playing this game, gone through the game 3 times, and still can't stop thinking about it, a ten is really all I can give it. I loved the first mass effect because it sucked you into it's universe, I read all the codex entries, talked to every NPC and even read all the planet bios in the galaxy map. Most importantly though is that you actually felt like you were Shepard, you shaped him in the hero you wanted him to be and because of that you actually cared for him. Your squad wasn't as well developed as I'd of liked but you still had that connection to character like Garrus and Wrex since they told you about themselves. Then comes Mass Effect 2 and it blows it's predecesor out of the water. The combat has been tightened with the cover system being more responsive, and teammates (and enemies) that are actually competent and each class has become more distinct with weapon restrictions and special abilities only they can use. They improved the musical score by leaps and bounds with orchestral music that you can't get out of your head. Since the only song worth noting in the original was theme in the ending cutscene that's impressive. But the thing that made Mass Effect 2 great was the story. The main story is decent but not mind blowing till you reach the climax (which will leave you breathless), but the stories of your squadmates are what make the game. They're all well made and do what the original tried to accomplish, make you care about your squad as much as your character. The fact that they can die in the final mission if you made a wrong choice or didn't flesh out their background makes you scared when you need to make a decision. When a character dies you actually feel distressed and guilty, the fact that Bioware assembled a cast full of people you don't just find interesting but actually like is a huge achievement. Don't even get me started on the voice acting, it's not the best voice acting I've ever heard but it's very, very close. The fact that it maintains that quality for almost the entire 31,000 lines of dialogue in the game is nothing short of astounding. Despite my high praise the game isn't for everybody, if you need to shoot something every couple seconds this probably isn't the game for you. But if you're like me and want to get pulled into an interesting and fully fleshed out role playing experience then the only reason you should not be playing this game is that you are currently finishing the first game.
