 tl:dr, extremely amazing game with a few very minor issues that don't subtract at all from the expereince. 98/100 I approached this title with slight fear. Usually when you have too high expectations to something, you're disappointed. Fortunately, this isn't the case here, Mass Effect 2 took my pretty unreasonable expectations, and exceeded them. This game is one of the best games I have ever played. Bioware has done a lot to make this game better than the previous, in fact I can't disagree with a single change they've made to the game. The graphics are better than ever, crisp and clear, though it's still a shame that the engine doesn't support high anti-aliasing. That's a very minor drawback, however, as the graphics truly are the best I've seen in a game since Crysis. The sluggish combat from the first game has been totally eradicated, replaced with a much more fast and streamlined version. The clunky inventory and upgrade system has been abolished too, replaced with an overall better system with no inventory at all, though a few more weapons to pick from would have been nice. The resource gathering for upgrades part has been deepened a bit, now you scan planets for materials with your cursor. It's actually a really cozy mini-game, but it can quickly get lengthy. Interestingly, you can play the entire game without even encountering the resource mini-game (my first playthrough) and still get through to the other side, albeit a bit battered. The two other hacking mini-games are really fun and quick to play, so no issues at all there. Storywise the game is excellent. I won't spoil anything, but The Illusive Man is a highly interesting piece of work, and your cooperation with the notorious organization Cerberus presents a few intriguing moral dilemmas. Speaking of moral dilemmas, this game is riddled with them all over. It's really a very gray game, and there is never a "right" choice. Overall however, the characters, your crew, are the focus of this game. They're developed brilliantly and all of them have a certain depth to them, some more than other, though. You really grow to like them, which you truly find out during the final mission. Some of their personal missions have a few real tear-jerker moments too. Normally they'd seem a bit fake at best, but the writing is so well done and the voiceacting so amazing that it's really believable, which is really rare in a game. It would really be a shame for Bioware to throw the surviving crew away for replacements in the final installment of the series. Of course, some things must be bad about this game. Other than what you may have extrapolated from the wall of text above, there are a few slight graphical issues with tearing around the eyes and the mouth corners at a few points during the game. Gameplay-wise I have nothing derogatory to add. Mass Effect 2 is all the way through a polished and exhilarating experience. I've seen complaints that it's not a true rpg, but to say that you have to ask yourself, what is an RPG game? Let me clarify that RPG tag that gets thrown around so much nowadays. Role Playing Game. It's all about immersiveness and choices. For example, Half Life 2 is almost a role-playing game. You just need choices and dialogue and you're there. Some people however seem to be so far stuck up their own a**holes that they think the definition of an RPG is "DnD ruleset". Wake up, and listen to the word you're saying. For extra clarification, I will say it one more time. RPG = Role Playing Game Is Mass Effect 2 this? Hell yeah. Be sure to buy this wonder while you can. It's a gaming experience that rarely comes around.
