 Possibly my favorite game of all time now (beating out the original Legend of Zelda, Final Fantasy VI, and maybe, just maybe, Morrowind). At first I approached the game cautiously. It seemed like the systems had been stripped down too much. It turned out I was wrong. By the time I was over halfway through the game (about 13 hours or so in), I had as many (or more) combat skills to worry about as in the first game. My adept was flinging biotics left and write while using the sniper rifle to take out foes at range, a rocket launcher to take down mechs, and a sub-machine gun for anything that got close. The only thing I was really missing was the wide range of armor for the first game, but that provided the bonus of losing the cluttered inventory system of the first game. I know some people dog the mini-games, but the only one that became tedious toward the end of the game was the scanning/probe launching to harvest materials. My only complaint about the other two is that they probably give you too much time to solve them. The story itself was great. As anyone who reads a lot knows, there's nothing new under the sun. All stories are based on certain universal themes and that's the case here, as well. But no other game's story lets you make choices like the ones in ME2 without cushioning the impact. If you choose to leave innocents to die a horrible death, you'll hear their screams. But spending that time saving them could have other effects you might not be willing to accept. Of course, all of your decisions come down to the suicide run at the end of the game where no member of your team is guaranteed to make it out alive. Having played through this using a save from ME1, I can also safely say that many of your decisions in this game will also affect what happens in ME3. I actually had an ally that I made in ME1 contact my character to say they'd be there when the final conflict occurs (presumably in ME3). I can only imagine how the varied choices in ME2 could impact ME3 (instigating a war? putting dangerous technology in the wrong hands?). Finally we have a game that begins to show the promise of truly interactive storytelling.
