Ever hear the expression, "If it ain't broke, don't fix it"? Well, with Mass Effects 2, Bioware really fixed it. For starters, the main plot is nowhere near as well-written or cleverly developed across the gameplay experience as it was in ME1. The voice-acting is good, and the dialogue is good, but he main story arc is far too sparsely delivered, and the final boss fight is pure and utter lameness. To add insult to injury, Bioware completely butchered the talent/power system, giving the tougher enemies special defenses that can only be taken down with a few key powers. This means that you are constantly using the same few powers over, and over, and OVER, and it is nothing like the wonderfully diverse and enjoyable talent/power system from ME1. This fact alone makes giving this game a good rating utterly impossible. In addition, Bioware decided to HEAVILY restrict the character customization options in ME2, for what reason I have no idea. They completely eliminated your ability to customize your teammates' armor/appearance, making it feel like they're barely your characters at all. They restrict the main character's armor choices to an insane degree, completely gutting ME1's L/M/H armor types and leaving the player with just a few bulky armors to choose from (and that's only if you buy all the DLC's), all of which look ridiculous. They oversimplified the skill/stat system to the point of stupidity, making leveling-up seem almost completely irrelevant. They removed entirely the ability to explore remote worlds with the vehicle, and instead replaced it with a horrendously boring mini-game with which to "mine" worlds for necessary resources. Lastly, because of all the restrictions Bioware decided to impose on the player in ME2, this game has ZERO replay value. Once you've done it, you never want to do it again. Basically, Mass Effect 2 is like Mass Effect 1, only with a LOT less stuff. Being a die-hard Bioware fan, this game was one of my biggest video game disappointments of all-time.
