"Never judge a book by it's cover."  This is an old saying most of us heard before we could even read.  As soon as you hear this phrase, feelings of unappreciated perfection, sleepers, and bargain buys come to mind.  Unfortunately this phrase is best used to describe the total let down of the almost unprecedented blockbuster that is Mass Effect 2.     Let's first get all the limp-wristed, purse carrying fan boys out of the way by describing how the game is good and in some cases phenomenal.  Graphics are a no-brainer.  Not since the days that PC gaming graphics were light years ahead of consoles, has any game been this visually attractive to me.  These graphics are amazing.  Almost too amazing, but we'll discuss that in a bit.  The story line isn't taking a back seat in this installment either.  Not only does this story line allow you change (albeit just slightly) the path you take, but it fills in most if not all gaps that may have lingered from the first.  This is about where the positives for this game end.  Most anyone out there will probably claim I'm crazy and respond with some ridiculous claim that the game play is second to none.  This might have been true, had it not been for the plethora of glitches and down right lack of beta testing or debugging that in this case was just plain criminal.     Now obviously I don't have two weeks to waste, nor do I have more than a few thousand words that I have for this review.  Therefor, I will NOT be listing the hundreds of problems I found while trying to finish two play throughs.  I will mention however the most noticeable glitches starting with the most unforgivable.  NOTICE: IF YOU AREN'T PLAYING THE GAME ON INSANITY OR VANGUARD, MANY OF THE PROBLEMS WITH THIS GAME WILL NOT OCCUR AS OFTEN.   Most people would agree, that by definition, a game has rules and consequences for not following those rules.  Without rules, a game cannot really exist.  Imagine if football had no rules.  The game(if you could even call it that) would consist of a bunch of people sitting around watching a group of men stand on a grass field picking their noses!  Rules(or laws) is a pretty basic requisite for any "game".  The makers of Mass Effect 2 however must have gotten the memo for the definition change from Merriam Webster early.  First off, I can safely say that for every 10 times I died in the game on insanity mode, 9 of those deaths weren't because of my lack of skill or mistakes I had made.  But rather because of the game making a split-second decision to suck it big time and not do what it's supposed to. Wait a second, did I just say... 90%?  Did you freakin' read what I just wrote!?!  90%!!!  I haven't even described the actual glitches but lets just stew on that for a moment...  Is there any point to playing this game?  You can't even figure out if you are any good.  You can't even decide what strategy to use.  How do you strategize chaos?  You can't!  It is by definition IMPOSSIBLE to predict, plan, and therefor strategize a game that glitches this often.  If you want to charge an opponent, sorry, the game decided that the auto-map button isn't gonna work right now so NO real-time fighting for you.  You have to pull up the power wheel and MAYBE, yes I said MAYBE, it will work after you try it another three times.  Sometimes you'll just die not able to attack, not able to do anything but wonder how the heck terrorist groups got into the business of making video games.  Or maybe the game WON'T give you your exp points.  Yes, I said WON'T give you your exp.  Not for any other reason than we want you to reload that checkpoint and redo that 10 minute conversation 8 times until the game magically decides to NOT skip the points awarded.  Why were you given those paragon points this time around and not the previous 4 times you just loaded it and failed?  Because the game sucks and is ruled by glitches, that's why.  Oh, and let's not forget targeting.  Is it my fault that the game ALLOWED that collector to walk up on top of that obstacle, heck no.  But that doesn't mean I'll be able to target him with a heavy charge instead of getting killed by an enemy taking advantage of your handicap.  The last of the fatal flaws that I'll rant about is the game engine itself.  Early I mentioned that the graphics "might" be too good.  I stated this because the frequency and tendency of most of the glitches, become more severe with the complexity of the battle you're in.  The more blatant and disgusting of these glitches will just so happen to occur more frequently in the most intense battles.  Or basically when they are the most damaging to your gameplay.  This is a programmer's problem and should not have reached the gamers or consumers.  These are ONLY a few of the absolutely UNFORGIVABLE problems within this game.   As far as some of the less offensive problems, this game still has some big issues.  Remember how aggravated you would become when you died in the first game and you had to watch the stupid screen circle your corpse with that annoying music in the background?  Of course you do, this is a feature that countless games have tried and been criticized for because it's just stupid and annoying.  Of all the things in a video game to try to make realistic this one never made sense.  Well ME2 has gone ten steps further by making the death sequence even more annoying and obnoxious, but this time around it's also inevitably gonna be the REASON you die from time to time.  The death sequence this time around starts at low health completely distorting and blocking the entire TV screen with dark shades of gray and red with giant blood vessels blinding you.  Not only that, but if being blind when you're trying not to die isn't bad enough, the genius game makers decided that if you're about to die, giving up is just better because they aren't gonna let you hear anything either... *sigh*.  Who decides this is a good idea?  Why can't people who actually PLAY games make those EASY decisions.  How many people need to be asked something before you realize that 100% of 10 people that hate something is no different that 100% of a million people that hate something.   Load times.  Oh... my... lanta.  This is sooooooo ridiculous I can't even describe.  42 seconds to load, 28 seconds to load, 19 seconds to load, 44 seconds to load.  What the heck happened?  Games like Halo had the next area loading while you played and I remember going through entire play throughs of Halo 3 without a single load, EVER.  Granted not everyone has cut-scenes that allow for loading while they play through.  But load times that climb toward 60 seconds are unacceptable.  When did this become OK.  During a very frustrating insanity playthrough with a vanguard, I learned that the game is actually easier as you go on.  (the stupidest concept ever I might add)  When playing the collector ship level about a third the way through the game, I was stuck fighting the harbinger on the floating platforms for quite some time.  During this epic challenge of a level, I became accustomed to actually spending MORE time in the load screen than I did for many of the attempts I made on that particular battle.  This, as I'm sure you can imagine, was an eye-opening experience that bordered on a revelation... this game was thrown into the market without even half of the beta testing and debugging that it deserved.     Now, not everyone is going to agree.  Again, those that don't attempt to play the game on insanity with a vanguard may not see the severity of these issues.  Nonetheless, they are all of them unacceptable and unforgivable in this day and age of video games.  Could you imaging if Avatar had this many problems?  Do you think movie critics would just ignore them like the game reviewers do.  Probably not.  This game has the potential to be one of the best games I've every played.  Bottom line:  This game is NOT worth playing until numerous patches have been released and these problems and glitches addressed.  Until that time, Mass Effect two is a Ferrari with a Hyundai engine.     -Moto     P.S.  The following are a list of fatal reoccurring glitches:   -Kasumi cannot find cover when sent to it.  Somehow she constantly ends up standing on top of it, even when it's not possible.   -In the Archangel recruiting mission there is a hallway with invisible glitching boundaries.  In the basement level when closing shutter doors you'll find it, especially if you're a vanguard.  You'll come to a junction with three doors.  The first door (directly in front of you) is already open and must be closed first.  The door on the left however contains a hallway that takes a right turn in the middle of it.  This section is a dead spot.  I've come to use the term "Dead Spot" thanks specifically to ME2.  This corner should not be traversed until ALL vorcha in the vicinity are eliminated. Trying to take cover in that corner or using biotic such as Charge will only result in invisible misses and targeting denial. Good thing Bioware decided to play this level first before releasing the game.
