I do not get the love for this game.    It starts off good: The Normandy (minor spoiler) is destroyed in combat by a mysterious ship. This whole sequence is fairly interesting, although there's no gameplay to it. You can't die, as far as I can tell, and none of the choices alter anything (more on that later), but it is an interesting cinematic sequence.   After that, it's all downhill.   As an action game it is barely adequate. You have some weapons and abilities, but really, the variety of different loadouts and abilities in this game is similar to something like Modern Warfare 2. A few guns, a couple of abilities... that's it.   As an RPG it is very sub-par. There are very few abilities. Fallout beats this game hands-down as an RPG. It is nothing like Dragon Age or any regular RPG. Some people call it "dumbed down", and that is exactly what it feels like.   The story is ok, nothing more. The acting is average. Most of the time it just sounds like people reading lines. The voice acting in DA:O was much, much better. So was the story. Bioshock's story was far better than this. This game features every stupid, lame cliche from science fiction in place of an interesting story. Beyond that, everything is explained to you in dialogue. You are not allowed to suspect anything, or wonder about anything, it is all laid out for you in an endless procession of exposition. I don't feel invested in the characters at all. I don't know why I should care about them or what happens to them.    I suspect that how much you like this game depends heavily on how old you are. If you are 12-17 years old, you'll probably love this game, because all of the story cliches and devices are not yet boring to you. Into your 20's and later, this game just looks like a mishmash repeating of all of the plot lines and elements you saw as a teen.    This would be OK, but the story is just barely engaging, and the gameplay is only barely fun. In a game like Fallout, the story was good and the combat was pretty good, although the voice acting in Fallout sucked (except for the professionals they used like Liam Neeson). But the game overall was engaging and fun.    This game is very linear. You never end up in a location exploring around. It just never happens. You do a mission, the mission is very linear, then you do another mission, which is also totally linear. You upgrade your four stats/abilities, upgrade one of the few weapons in the game, and that's it. Then you go do another totally linear mission. It's the "Amusement Park" style of games, where you go from one ride experience to the other, but nothing connects it all.   There's only one significan mechanic in this game other than moving and shooting: Crouch Behind a Barrier. You can't even jump. This is so silly, it's like going back to Doom 2. You get into combat and guess what you do to protect yourself: You Crouch Behind a Barrier. Can you just crouch? No. There is no crouching in open space! Can you jump? No! There is no jumping. Well, technically that's not true. You can jump, but only... yes, you guessed it: Jump Over a Barrier! This leads to level designs where convenient barriers are placed in strategic places so that you can do the only thing there is to do in this game besides run and shoot: Crouch Behind a Barrier.   The review said the game was "huge". What? The game doesn't feel "huge" at all. It feels like a lot of tiny little pieces that are only tangentially connected.   Another sore point: The game is full of dialogue choices that aren't actually choices. You have two options, for example: "I gave you an order!" and "There's no time to argue!" No matter which one you choose, the result is exactly the same. In fact I don't think I've come across a dialogue choice in the game that significantly affected how the game played. This is not even basic gameplay, it's just the illusion of gameplay.   The graphics are technically good, and the character designs are sometimes very cool, but the environments does not feel real. It feels like a polished, computer-game world. Of course that's what it is, but it all seems so plastic. It does not compare to Fallout, for example, which felt gritty and real. It doesn't even compare to classic old BioWare games like Baldur's Gate, which had realistic and moody elements. This is like a plastic world where everything is unnaturally clean. Doesn't anybody litter in this universe? Is everything always perfectly spotless?   I have to say that the music is fantastic though. Whoever did the music deserves a big thumbs-up.   I really thought this game would be better based on the reviews. If you are a teenager, I suspect you will like this game. I find it derivative, boring and tedious.
