hello, naf here.  i was really wanting this game to be really better then the predecessor, which now, i am happy to believe it's true, this game does hit the target, but it doesn't do much more then that, well not for me anyway.   now I'm a huge fan of Gears of war, Halo, Call of duty and pretty much every other shooter out there, so i was expecting quite a lot of fun, "line em up, knock em down!" moments, which i have to say, there is hell of a lot of them, compared to ME1. literally, the first second of gameplay contains you fighting off some easy,but  "supposively" lethal MECHs. now to get a feeling of how that feels, it's like people running away from an apple, saying it's the lord of destruction, which makes the feel of the game, cheesy and unrealistic.   now, like i said there is ton's of opportunities to get your gun out and start firing, but the ridiculous coding of the games AI makes the whole combat idea useless. i mean, I'm fighting off some collector's, and Mirada, comes out from cover, slowly walks to one of the collectors and melee them in the face, walks back again and sits behind cover. the stupid thing is, is that, they didn't fire at her in the process. now this many look Very immusing  to start off, but when you come into large fire fights, it makes the game VERY unrealistic and boring.   still on about the shooting aspect her. now i wish, and wish there was a better HUD. you can either quick switch weapons or you can pause the game and switch them slowly. now switching weapons quickly is the most frustrating thing EVER. there is nothing on your HUD which tells you which weapon is current active. this means your practically guessing which weapon you quick switched to. now on first person games, this won't be so annoying, if at all since you can clearly see the weapon your wielding, but in 3rd person, you can't since all you can see is the back of your character. so now this leaves one choice left, which is to slowly pause the game, and go through a drop down menu to select your weapon. now after an hour of playing like, combat is slow, unrealistic, and more clunkier    then other shooters.    i think i've had enough bad points about this game, but I'm trying to find some good points. the interactive talking is great i must admit, and some scenery is mind blowing. the story is interesting with loads of turns and twists, and the way you can chose your own ending is AMAZING, for a game. but since this game has had more combat features then before, the ratio of score has to be applied accordingly. this here, for being a shooter, is probably the worst shooter i have ever played, but as a game itself, i would have to give it a gameplay mark of 4/10. the AI is stupid, the weapon wielding is stupid, the combat is Stupid, and these "glitches" all lower the gameplay.
