I always wondered if the trend of making everyone feel like winners to the point of making sure even the last place got an award would have any adverse affects on society. However, I didn't expect that way of thinking to carry over to the gaming world. Video games normally have an easy setting, hint books can be bought, and online walk throughs are easy to find for casual and non-experienced gamers. I'm guessing people complained that they felt less than smart doing those things or that it was too much hassle. Their voices have been heard because this game would make a monkey feel like a veteran gamer.    This is not to say there is nothing good about the game. I just didn't find it challenging. The voice acting was incredible and the graphics were top notch. The story was engaging and the characters felt like they came to life at brief points. The music is good enough that you won't feel the need to turn it off throughout the entire short time it takes you to finish the game once. It really shows that they spent a lot of time polishing everything that would make an awesome interactive movie. If they had just done that, it would have been a much more enjoyable experience. At the very least, I would have been inclined to play through more than once to see the rest of the content. Unless you consider walking/flying around something, there were really only two things that stopped this from being an exceptional choose your own adventure.   Mini games – I remember when mini games would add value and fun to a game. Sometimes I'd even feel like I got a second game for my money. I can't imagine anyone enjoying the ones they put in this game though. The hacking and lock picking ones are only slightly annoying and would be forgivable if there was more to do in the game. I found myself wishing very early that there was a better way to make money so I didn't have to do them anymore. There isn't though. Resource gathering is the worst and who ever put that in the game needs to be fired. Watching paint dry is more fun. If you don't find yourself wanting to stick a needle in your eye at least once, you have nerves of steel.   Combat – If you have played a first person shooter before, you won't be impressed by the combat. If you played the last installment you will be disappointed that they made sniping less fun and got rid of tank combat all together. If you don't constantly use cover you will die fairly often. This means you will spend a lot of time repositioning yourself. Once you master that, there really isn't much thought to it. Both your shields and health regenerate so there is never any sense of urgency. It doesn't really matter if you do die and once you find out what is there it won't happen in the same place twice often.    There isn't much reward for the battles so they seem like something put there to annoy you between cut scenes. There is almost no customization to the characters so even experience doesn't mean much. Boss battles are just about switching to your special weapon. The game seems to start once you go through the omega relay and then it is over way to quickly.   There are different classes for the main character and an abundance of NPC team members that you can't use at the same time. That alone would normally give the player a reason to replay the game. Since there is no strategy or tactics, it doesn't matter who you are or who you have on your team unless you want to check out the different dialog. The only time you really need to switch out is when you are playing a certain NPC's chapter.   The best part of the game is the story and character interaction. There are different choices you can make and ordinarily that would give the game replay value. Putting up with the mini games and lackluster combat will really make you think twice about that. Even being able to dry hump a completely different person didn't entice me to want to play again.    My recommendation would be to rent this game unless you have a lot of patience, low expectations, and really want to know the results of a different choice.
