Cutting many elements out of a game to replace it with tedious mini games seems like a step backwards to me. I cant understand all the positive reviews this game has been getting?   Lets start with their solution to the awkward inventory system in mass effect 1....... they completely cut it out, along with all loot! the most you'll get is money so they've basically made it so that your only fighting on so that you can continue fighting on.  So lets have a look at the the combat, a seemingly small change that changes the entire game mechanics is the addition of ammo, to me a stupid and appallingly bad choice, making this game basically a bad mindless shooter, granted if you like this style of game play then fine but if you like it then why not play any one of the other third person shooters that do it better than this like Gear of War?  The ammo system they've implemented is clunky and poorly imposed. All weapons use the exact same ammo (with the exception of the large weapon, essentially grenades from the first) but of course the more powerful weapons can fire fewer shots per clip......... which makes them completely useless! The only thing you get with them is time saved as all the weapons use up almost exactly the same amount of clips for the damage they produce so using a large weapon over a mini pistol means you just use up the ammo more quickly. But thanks to your teams makes you role in this is completely negated as they don't use ammo! They've made you the ammo guzzler of the group! You may as well just let them handle things because it saves you having the chore of searching around for damned ammo >.< Well it might be if the A.I was worth a damn, of course you have the usual things of a char heading off half way across the map when you told them to go 5 meters to the left, but if you play infiltrator as I did you'll encounter another nice little glitch to make your role in the group even more pointless. Aside from the fact that every teams member now only has 2 usable skills now anyway (again, just cuttings things out is a great way to improve something) when you turns invisible as an infiltrator you'll find all the enemies around you stand completely still....... thats right they will just wait, they'll do absolutely nothing until you re-appear, not even move, and if you think you can use this time to evade them think again, no matter how far you move away or how hidden you are, as soon as you reappear they'll know exactly where you are!  Anyway I've written enough and I haven't even covered the mini game, complete lack of upgrades, customisation, you know options and playability and various other glitches in the game. Again how people are enjoying this game I'll never know?
