I plan to revise this when I complete the game, I have only been playing it for a couple of days now.   Call me crazy here, maybe because I like playing the good guy in my games. I don't like how I have joined a bad group from ME1 and having to reinvent myself all over again, it just seemed pointless that the Normandy was destroyed just to have a new one appear, to have Commander Shep killed, just to have him come back to life. It just all seems pointless.    OK so don't get me wrong, I LOVE THIS GAME!!! I just wish that the plot had been different. Really not all that different, just working for the alliance and being a full spectre again! AND, I had really become attached to the characters from the first game, and think I should have had them in this game if I chose. I would have waited another year if I could have truly brought my ME 1 play completely into this game!      UPDATE: Ok I have been playing for a little longer now and have to say that I am disappointed with this game! It got rid of everything an RPG is supposed to have, an inventory, buy/sell things, exploration of everything and every corner. This game won't even let you explore every nook in every room. Every door should open, every open space should be explorable. Every planet should be landable, even if nothing is there, you should be able to land on it. There is no drive to look for upgrades or credits. MAN, I like all the new stuff in this game, but I wish they had kept the old stuff. This is more of a first person shooter than an RPG, if you are looking for GEARS OF WAR in space with a level system, and a better story, this is the game for you! If you want a space adventure (similar to ME1) THIS IS NOT YOUR GAME!    Still, a good game, I just would have waited until it goes on sale or becomes a platinum hit!   SECOND UPDATE: AI - NOT , man this game has 0 AI, stupid idiots keep running into the room, standing where the last dude stood and just overall STUPID! God the more and more I play this game the more I am let down!
