*SPOILERS BELOW*  Overall the package seems to be trying to tie some knots but at the end you just seem to feel that the plot was rushed and the DLC alone does not add enough to the overall plot of the game. As it is set, after the Horizon mission. The DLC creates far too much momentum just after meeting the collectors. Then the game story goes back to the same and the conclusion is that the collectors are coming anyhow, it just leaves you wondering how much was really done by shepherd with this reaper prevention mission if anyhow it just stops them for just some time. In the meanwhile, apparently shepherd doesnt do much, he just destroys a collector base and some human reaper that doesnt seem to be much worse than the reapers themselves. The story just doesnt mesh in together, and this DLC just adds to that.   The main focus on the DLC should be the story, however in terms off gameplay the game suffers mayor quirks that weren't found in the rest of the story. Some enemies go past you running in plain line of sight, some just stay standing while you shoot them, other keep sitting down while you shoot their side/head, etc. Some of the quirks were already there, but the DLC just makes them all more noticeable. Another point is that the mission feels un-personable, apart from general hackett, there is nobody worth remembering, and you feel as there were no choices at all.    The settings just feel okay, however they do not make you feel as if you were on an asteroid, it just feels like a small station on a planet which detracts from the experience. This is especially noticeable when you start the mission and at the end of the mission (it seems there is some kind of atmosphere in an asteroid). Music and sound were just fitting, nothing noticeable here.    if you want good value for your money go get shadow broker and overlord, this DLC and Kasumi DLC don't just live up to the standards of those, however if you don't mind spending more this can add more fun to an already awesome game. 
