Arrival is the final installment in the Mass Effect 2 DLC series, and details the earliest discovery of the impending Reaper invasion. Shepard is contacted by Admiral Hackett (voiced by the returning Lance Hendriksen), and asked to rescue an undercover Alliance operative from a Batarian prison in a solo mission.   Arriving on the planet Aratoht, Shepard infiltrates the prison holding Dr. Amanda Kenson, the Alliance operative held by the Batarians. The player has the option of stealthily sneaking around the guards in order to earn an achievement/trophy, if they are not alerted to Shepard's presence. This isn't immediately obvious though, and the tendency to stick to the run and gun formula means the player is likely to miss this first time around - frustrating considering you only get one shot at this.   Negotiating a few obstacles such as leaking gas pipes spewing flame that blocks your path and the occasional Varren, Shepard eventually breaks Kenson out of the prison. You then engage in tense battles while making your escape, and the combat is as solid as ever. Kenson joins you at times, but the battles are usually one-sided in favour of the enemy owing to the lack of squad support.   Once back at Kenson's base, it is revealed how they came to know of the impending Reaper invasion, and that to stop it, they must destroy the Mass Relay for the system they're currently in, albeit at the cost of causing the equivalent of a supernova in the ensuing explosion, and the destruction of all life Aratoht, an event that would risk open war with the Batarians.   Without wishing to spoil the plot, Shepard is soon alone, fighting off waves of enemies whilst a countdown begins. Another achievement can be gained by surviving, but on your own and being attacked from all angles, it's hard to find decent cover and the odds are stacked against you.   Later, Shepard has to complete the plan to destroy the Mass Relay, but the events leading up to this are predictable, given previous events in the main game, and aside from a neat touch where Shepard remotely controls a Mech to break out of confinement, there's a lack of "newness" in terms of gameplay, a fact that is disappointing.   In the end, Arrival does a decent job of setting the stage for the third and final game in the trilogy, but it's arguably the least enjoyable of the available DLC, especially compared to Operation Overlord and Lair of the Shadow Broker. It feels like not much actually happens and whilst fighting solo has its appeal and is certainly challenging, you can't shake the feeling that this should've been bigger and better. There are three achievements to be gained and a couple of upgrades, but otherwise this feels strangely underwhelming.
