The story is the biggest thing in Bioware games. And this game has a good story too.  The acting is great, the story is well told. While the story is good, it's not great and it's not really part-of-a-trilogy material. It feels like a PSP sequel or a DLC, just longer and bigger. Why I think that is because instead of untangling the problems and answering the questions of ME1, it introduces another main problem and in the end of the game you fix it. Just some filler material.   [Minor SPOILER-beginning]  There is no point in Shepard dying and being resurrected. The only reason that was done was to be able to change your face and class. But I wouldn't mind if you could change that without being built again.  If Shepard died in ME1, resurrecting him in ME2 would just be cheap. But Shepard survived ME1 and announced a sequel ("The reapers are still out there") so there was no need to kill and resurrect him.  But at least all those intro movies are pretty. I especially liked the detail on the breaking apart Normandy while you're walking on it. I only wished I could skip them (after already playing once). [/Minor SPOILER]   There are more romance options, which is pretty nice, but the final romance scenes are watered down compared to ME1. The scene in ME1 looked like a scene in a normal film, the scenes in ME2 look like in a children's cartoon.   The game has the same conversation mechanism as ME1. With the same nice cameras and fluent conversations. The choices wheel is made the same way, with top choices being good and bottom evil. The left choices are to get more information and the right ones to advance in the conversation.   The text for a choice is still different than what Shepard will say (often for no reason - you click "I have to go", Shepard says "Goodbye" and other way around).  But all of it is mostly the same as in ME1, except now you can sometimes interrupt the NPC with a good or evil action. This is pretty nice, but there should be a neutral action, because sometimes the "renegade" action is not evil at all.    Combat has got an improved cover system. The biotic powers now aim better. The heavy weapons are good. There are some nice powers like the biotic Throw power and the Adrenaline Rush power.  The only biggest problem is that all the powers have got the same unified cooldown (when you use a power you can't use another one until the cooldown is over). On the plus side the cooldowns are pretty short. First I thought that that way it doesn't matter, but I noticed it makes it more efficient to just use the weaker powers, because they have shorter cooldowns. And the med-packs have the same cooldown too, so there's another reason to use weak powers. I usually like to use a power as soon as it cools down, so you can use weaker powers while the strong one(s) are in cooldown. That is not the case here.   Another problem is the ammo. The "ammo" is called "thermal clips". The cut codex page says they were developed so that you don't have to wait for a gun to cool (in ME1 with good enough upgrades, guns never overheated), you can just change the clip.  But in reality, it works just like normal ammo, which is quite unoriginal, boring and inconsistent with the lore.  The ME1 cooling system should be kept as it was (except without too powerful cooling upgrades) and add a new expendable, thermal clips, to cool weapons without cooling. That would be much more unique.   While the fighting is improved, the RPG-ness suffers. The game was further simplified for xbox (also called Halo) fanboys. It went more mainstream I think. I hope they won't think that's the reason it will be more successful. Because it will probably be more successful because of the advertising.  It's not very nice for a sequel to change direction. It might lose some of the original fans. And get new fans who won't like the first one. A trilogy must work as a whole especially if the parts are as closely related as in Mass Effect.   The game has no inventory. It only has some unlock-able weapons (once you get the blueprint you can equip it to everyone of the right class).  There are some upgrades, which increase something forever.  And there are armor upgrades/parts. To make it up to only having one available armor, you can at least customize it a lot.  Regarding omni-tools, implants, weapons and weapon-upgrades (none in this game, only some bullet type skills), ME1 was better. Regarding armor, it is a tie.  But because of this you can't equip armor on companions, so they will run around space in their casual wear, exposed skin and only a silly looking breath mask.   A lot of descriptions only say "significantly increases" or something like that, which doesn't really tell much.  This is a pretty big problem in weapons, because there are no weapons stats shown.   They removed the charm and interrogate skills, which are now governed by your paragon/renegade (good/evil) status. I think that was a good change. But there is a problem. It would be good if it was just paragon points for charm and renegade points for interrogation. But it's the difference between paragon and renegade that counts, so you are forced to be either all goody goody or all evil. I was mostly good, but sometimes I did/said the bad-ass stuff. Not really evil, but bad-ass. And now I can't charm my way out of some situations.  But there should be more power skills. There are very few for companions.  There should be hacking and unlocking skills (like in most Bioware games including ME1). Skills like that make companions actually useful and not just helpers in combat. In ME2 everything is unlock-able by the PC (player character) as long as the player does an easy (as it should be) mini-game.  There are also less skill levels which cost different numbers of points (you get 2 per level up). That means a lot of times you'll have to save points for later and have the Squad button blinking.   Two more technical things I should mention:  The textures are still a bit blurry and there's still no anti-aliasing.  And the DLCs are annoying. The game always wants to connect to the web to check for new DLCs, which are lame and feel like cheating. The only one I liked was Normandy crash site.  While it checks for new DLCs you cannot even start playing. It takes a long time if you are using internet connection for something in background.    Overall it's a good game. Especially if you played and liked the first one, because you just can't leave it there.
