It is hard to describe Mass Effect 2 without comparing it to some of the other massive releases it aspires to compete with. This is a game that is touted to be on par with legends like Red Dead Redemption, Fallout, Ultima, Doom, and even its older sibling - Mass Effect.   But does it deserve the praise? The new generation of gamers has tested it and found it to be, if not God, then close enough to it. For those of us with longer memories, it seems there is something missing.   I find it hard to describe what I did not enjoy about the game, there was enough in the way of satisfying moments. The weapons seemed to have a sense of power and energy to them, the enemies swarmed my cover positions in seemingly indefatigable waves, and the characters did their best to engage my interest.   But something was missing. For lack of a better word, I would have to call it a 'soul'. It is the personification of entertainment as business, a blithe and somewhat brief experience that attempts to create interest with storyless violence and awkward intimacy.   I did not find myself rooting for the characters or their success, and I found no glory in the mindless destruction of the hoard. Marching towards my obliquely referenced suicide mission created no anxiety, I had already died at the start of the game and had been resurrected with little explanation - so there was no feeling of consequence or concern.   I imagine, then, that this is what games by committee are supposed to be like. Polished and well presented, with exciting set pieces that push you from one piece of exposition to the next without really asking for an emotional commitment.   To be honest, in the end, I felt cheap and used. Much like the latest Hollywood slush, I had been whored to. What saddens me most is not that I was taken in, and paid my $NZ100 for the privilege of fellating corporate schlong, but that so many of you out there seem to feel that THIS is how gaming should be.   I almost blame the console era, and its seemingly low attention span, but I can't quite bring myself to do it. In a world where there is so much on offer, why are we pretending that Mass Effect 2 is anything more than it really is? It is Nike Shoes, or Starbucks Coffee, or Maria Sharapova. It is the essential basics, polished and placed on a pedestal without spirit or soul. It is sound and fury, but it signifies nothing.
