Whilst the new DLC for Mass Effect 2 has an interesting premise, it is a very short - it can be completed in 30 minutes - and Kasumi is underdeveloped as a character.   The premise of using a false ID and sneaking into a party to steal a valuable object seems like an interesting diversion from the usual shooting mechanics of the game. Indeed, Kasumi states to Shephard that he hopefully won't have to use his gun. However, after a few short tasks to break into a vault, the mission turns into another shoot out, with a final battle with the party's host, Donovan Hock. There is a moment of deja vu too, with the battle being against a gunship.   The character of Kasumi could have been a great addition to the crew -  playing almost as an 'infiltrator' with her cloak ability that allows her to sneak up on opponents. The back story has potential too. Yet, once you have completed her loyalty mission, her character development grinds to a halt. There are no dialogue options to explore, no potential romance, no conflicts with other crew members etc. All that you can do is interact with objects in Kasumi's room that initiate a brief response from her.    The mission itself is very short. I completed it in 30 minutes. There isn't really a recruitment mission like with the other characters (with potential side mission branches)- essentially you pick Kasumi up and then complete the loyalty quest.    In fact, because of the short nature of the DLC, and the underdeveloped character of Kasumi, it does play like a side mission. By that I mean it feels like a self contained, seperate and non-essential part of the game, rather than an extension that connects fully with the game and has some sort of effect on the main narrative (Shephard, other characters, the main quest).   Unless the DLC is somehow developed into Mass Effect 3, with Kasumi taking a more prominent role, it is, at this point, a rather disappointing addition to a great game.   On a side note - During later conversations with Jacob, Shephard states that 'the next Normandy will have a bar'. If you complete Kasumi's quest and visit her room on the engineering deck, you discover there is a bar after all. Yet, you cannot 'spill some drinks and get loud' with Jacob. Shame really.
