The add-on starts out easily enough, with a message from the Illusive Man telling you about a skilled thief who can give you some quid pro quo and to meet her in the Citadel.  The recruitment "mission" is more like a recruitment chat, which is not that dissimilar to Zaeed the other dlc character to date.  Both of which are disappointing compared with the other characters, missions.     Looking at Kasumi's abilities one stood out to me, backstab the only ability she has that is completely unique.  People on this website and others have said that she makes a great late game addition, however after taking her on the final two story missions on hardcore difficulty I can tell you that she is way to weak to deal with husk/scions in any kind of meaningful way, she spent more time dead then alive on the suicide mission.  I will say that her flashbang grenade which while not unique is a great addition to the soldier class since it gives you a way to move up on enemies.     Now we look at the loyalty mission, which starts out without any combat of any kind instead a little bit of espionage which reminds me of the good parts of the original Dues Ex.  Basically its not all run and gun which is a good thing since this is a two person job.  When you get deeper into mission you even learn that Hock the guy who you're robbing might be the biggest collector of human works ever.  Which is when the running and gunning start with all the same enemies, Eclipse mercs of all flavours + mechs thrown in for good measure.  The battles gets heated until the end which is just a gunship fight with a little mechanic that only Kasumi can accomplish.  But hey at least you get a new SMG which is actually inferior for your squadmates which makes it really useless.   The other aspect of Kasumi, her presence on the ship isn't that great, she suffers from the same problems as her dlc brother in arms they both lack a dialog wheel which makes the conversations one sided without any depth, its hard to know how your crew mates feel when you can't actually say anything back to them.  This is a big complaint I have with the dlc characters in ME2 since the dlc characters in DA:O were actually integrated into the main story line, you could interact with them in camp. so they felt like really people that you could have conversations with instead of outsiders that never really fit in.    I suppose my last point is the main reason I dislike this dlc so much, I could have lived with the short missions it brought if I had another interesting and fully functional crew member instead of a character I can't actually talk to outside of her two related missions.
