About 10 months ago I stumbled onto ME 1 in a used game bin for 15 bucks and decided to give it a shot.  I was utterly amazed and enthralled ... even with the the bad parts, I finished multiple play throughs and all DLC.  Needless to say I have been ecstatic and eagerly awaiting the release of ME 2; sadly I was disappointed.  Not to paraphrase some but the RPG aspect of this game has been shelled, conched, watered down, sidelined and "insert phrase here".  ME 1 had the perfect mix between third person shooter and RPG, allowing excessive outfitting option, skill point distribution, etc. and what do I find with ME 2? none of it, its all been stripped.  Yes I know this is not ME 1, but its a sequal and by the same company; guess EA's grubby hands have delved deeper into Bioware like a reaper into the Citadel ... but I digress.  I just see a lot of laziness in this game.  I could deal with the skill setup but would it be that hard to make it a little more developed, involved and useful?  Secondly why take away customization . . . that was just a dead brain move; someone didnt want to spend time writing the specs for it, or working with an inventory system.  Thirdly the idea of the new ammo system is horrible, absolute crap.  You always run out of ammo with anything except asault rifles and smg's.  Sniper rifles and Heavy pistols give you 10-15% use due to low max ammo holdings etc.  Seriously .. you could have kept no ammo but made the heat absortion clips give +25% firing rate on snipers / shotguns .. or maby even if you dont have them -75% firing rate on snipers shotguns, -45% firing rate on smg's / pistols .... anything besides the ridiculous setup you have.  I took all the fun out of the game playing as anything that uses weapons for me.  I finally made a vanguard so I didnt need ammo.  Now for the positives.  Great story so far, nice curve balls in the story that adds some spice, and GREAT job with the advancement of the biotic powers.  The difference in biotic powers is mind blowing, playing a vanguard in this game I actually kill most things with my powers vs. weapons.     Bottom line, they ruined the RPG aspect, but increased the shooter aspect.   Cult classic for RPG fans to cult zero.  Will enjoy this one may be once.
