After careful consideration, I think the biggest problem with Kasumi, Stolen Memory is the price. The add-on provides about the same level of content as the Zaeed add-on that came bundled with new copies of the game, so charging $7 for something about on par with that experience is hard to swallow. If you have some spare Microsoft points lying around like I did last summer, you could do far worse than Kasumi, but in the end, only bigger Mass Effect fans need apply.   The mission to recruit Kasumi is similar to the Zaeed recruitment mission which comes free with Cerberus Network activation. You receive the mission via a message from the Illusive Man on your private terminal, and are told to meet up with Kasumi at the Citadel. Upon leaving your ship, you are immediately greeted by Kasumi via a hijacked advertisement booth, and after a short conversation, Kasumi agrees to join your team, and tells you she'll be waiting on the Normandy. This is disappointing, as some of Mass Effect 2's recruitment missions are the highlights of the game. The missions to recruit Thane and Jack coming to mind as highlights of the Mass Effect 2 experience. I think Bioware could have done something great with the recruitment mission for a master thief, but we are left with no challenge, no mission outside of a short trip to the citadel.    This means Kasumi's loyalty mission takes the forefront, and essentially must hold up the entire add-on on its own. And, luckily, this loyalty mission is one of the best in the entire game. The mission involves performing a heist on the mansion of a rich and powerful smuggler, Donovan Hock. Inside Hock's mansion is a box which contains information about the Alliance and more importantly for Kasumi, the memories of her former partner and lover, who was killed by Hock on their last mission together.   Performing the heist is straightforward enough; you need to obtain a few pieces of information and sabotage a few electronic systems in order to disable the electronic door to the safe the graybox is being held in. This part of the mission does require some thought to pass through, as obtaining the means to disable the lock on the safe is not immediately obvious, and this is a nice change of pace from the usually straightforward action seen in the main game. Once you get inside the safe, the mission's action section begins, culminated by a boss fight against Hock. The action is about what you would expect if you've played through a significant amount of Mass Effect 2; there are no surprises here, just straightforward action. Upon finishing the mission, Kasumi must make a very difficult and heart-wrenching decision, which makes the ending touching and personal, ending the DLC on a strong note.   Unfortunately, this is about as developed as Kasumi's character gets. Similar to Zaeed after his loyalty mission, Kasumi just sits in her room, adding nothing more to the story or game at this point outside of the general comment now and then in certain situations. She will also tell stories about the items she has placed around her room, but these are no substitute for character development. There is no more conversation with her, no more learning about her past, it all ends there, and this is very disappointing for a paid DLC.    Making up for this somewhat are the perks gained from the DLC. Kasumi is a very deadly character in combat, as she can turn invisible (similar to the infiltrator class) and knock enemies out of cover, a useful skill in Mass Effect 2's cover based combat system. This skill comes in handy during those long wars of attrition that sometimes happen along your journey, making Kasumi a valuable asset to any team. The mission also grants you with a SMG that is probably by far the most powerful of its weapon class, the Locust. The Locust is deadly accurate and does decent damage, so for characters reliant on SMG's as a main weapon class, this add-on pack becomes more worthwhile to take advantage of. However, since the perks of this add-on are not heavily story-based after the mission is over, players who have completed the game with no intention of starting a new game should probably stay away.   Overall, Kasumi feels like a bit of a missed opportunity. Bioware could have done much more with her character, especially given her background as a Master Thief. Instead, after her mission, she just takes up space, and outside of the bar that is in her room, you will never have any reason to visit her between missions as you would other characters. If this were a free or inexpensive add-on, I would probably have little issue with this, but for $7, I think it is fair to expect a bit more of Bioware.
