The Good:  * Weapon design is nice and well modeled.  * Interface is nice, unlocking/hacking is creative and fun.  * Good voice acting, but male Shepard still sounds bad.  * Nice loading screens, game loads quickly with 1.01 patch.  * Save Import from ME1 changes a lot of dialog lines. High replay value.  * Jack and Samara's scene's are very well done.  * Seth Green has more lines and is generally awesome.     The Bad:  * Hair and makeup is low quality.  * Character design could be more detailed  * Miranda's face looks unrealistic, her face is too scrunched together, mouth is too high, chin too low, eyes nose and cheeks not properly aligned. She looks like a gremlin.  * Game is too cinematic. It tries to be a movie when it's not a movie. Backgrounds are often too dramatic and unrealistic, lens flares and glares shouldn't have been put in there at all.  * Quests are basic & straight forward. Go here, kill this, get that.  * No mods (DLC != mods) (Some people seem adamant about this, but are mostly uninformed.)    My 2 cents; I'm not much a fan of games like this. It's too episodic and will not likely feel complete until the series is "finished". It feels more like I am watching something on TV, or playing a game based on a TV show or manga. This bothers me. Publishers want dramatic effects, they want big explosions and cinematic scene play, they don't want substance or backstory, lore holds no meaning what so ever. I've seen it, I've seen certain developers get fired for being too detailed and not wanting to go mainstream and turn their game into a movie with big explosions and lack of substance.   The glory days of the RPG are truly dead, and this series of games are the nails for that coffin. There is a template to follow, and me saying this will likely herald the resounding wave of ignorant children that have likely never played anything worth playing to compare it to anything else outside of this mainstream garbage. This sadly defines "western" game design.   If it's not out of germany or japan, then it's honestly not worth playing. If you liked BG2, Arcanum, SystemShock2, or any other RPG style game worth playing for more than a couple hours, then this game is really not for you. Unfortunately for us, that won't stop them from releasing it because the way they designed it is mainstream. The people giving 10 point reviews right now have not likely played many games other than this one, so have very little to compare it to. This happened with WoW, as WoW gamers defended that game right up until they got bored of it and played other games, such as UO, and then understood our point of view.   But to expect that to change is redundant at this point. More than 10 to 15 years ago, the developers of Xenosaga were fired for being too detailed and refusing to add more cinematic explosions and dramatic hype. I knew then that the glory days of RPGs were dead and gone, and this game only  proves that. I am not surprised, and this will not likely be the last time you play a game as sorely empty as this one.   The bottom line might be; Don't buy anything from a western developer, nor anything published by EA, but I leave that judgment to you.   Hate me, love me, all the thumbs down in the world won't change the obvious, nor will it change my point of view. Nor will it change reality.
