*WARNING SPOILERS AHEAD*   THE GOOD   1) Bypassing Security in the first Mass Effect was pretty much just a matter reflex. This has been overhauled completly to a very simple system. You are looking down at a circut board, and have to match like symbols with like. There is a timer in the background. It gives the feeling that you are truely trying to get into an electronic lock.   2) Hacking Computers in the first Mass Effect was also a matter of reflex. This time around, you have a timer counting down while you are trying to match colored text. Watch out for the red blocks that represent Firewalls in the computer you're trying to hack.   3) Party members are an even more diverse group than ever. Their backstories more elaborate than before, even those that are familiar faces. They even can offer you more than just missions; they can give you possible upgrades to the Normandy to improve your chances on the final mission.   4) Ores actually have a purpose this time around. You need them to help research new tech, give Shepard a power outside his particular class, or upgrade the Normandy itself   5) They have said it many times but it's worth repeating, your choices from Mass Effect have repercussions in ME 2. Not just your actions in general of Paragon/Renegade. Nor just the major plotline choices on Feros, Noveria, and Virmire. There are a number of ones that seemingly are smaller and insignificant that show up, and are hinted at as well.   6) The basic set of armor you get is perhaps the best, since you can greatly customize it. To where you can have it carry extra ammo, grenades, improve health, accuracy, and you can even give it a custom paint job.   7)  The Conversation Interrupt was a great feature. At certain times, you can interrrupt conversations sometimes Paragon, sometimes Renegade, sometimes a choice between the two. It gives a welcome new spin on things.    THE BAD   1) The gameplay has been overhauled completely. Which is in of itself not a bad thing. The problem is that it has been tooled more for the fans of pure shooters. Which readily shows as Casual setting for Mass Efect 2, is roughly the equivalent to about the Veteran setting of the origional Mass Effect in terms of aggressiveness of enemies.   2) Cover has become all important, and the kind of cover equally important as even an Assault Rifle can quickly destroy some kinds of things you'd hide behind. Where before you just needed to tap the stick a bit to get behind cover, now it's a stick and A button, which if you're not careful will have you vaulting over your cover right into the line of enemy fire.   3) Powers can't be used individually anymore. Say Shepard uses Unity, all powers of his are unavaliable until Unity is done recharging. While this isn't much of a problem for Soldiers, Vanguards, Infiltrators, or Sentinals it creates a huge problem for a few of the Engineer and Adept powers that have very long recharge times.    4) There is no more Medigel in the classic sense of just quickly healing party members. Instead it is used to power the ability of Unity. Unity is pulling double duty as a healing power, and ability that revives downed party members. This makes Medigel more precious than ever. Which is sad since it is so rare.    5) While the new system for Bypassing Security and Hacking Computers has a much better feel to them, there are no do overs. There is no Omnigel this time around to save you (or make things quicker)    6) Text in many cases is nearly impossible to read if you do not have a HD TV. Even with a HDTV, it still hard to read.   7) There is no bantering between the party members, which is a disappointment given the diverse nature of party members you can collect. They will say something to Shepard if you look at the right place, but there is no interaction between them....Which is especially surprising given that you'd think Tali would be very curious about Legion.    8) You need to scan for Ores to get many things done. However this is an exceptionally long and boring process for much the game. It is possibly to spend anywhere from 5 to 15 minutes just sitting there scanning a single world. Using probes to mark a claim. With many systems having atleast 4 planets to scan, you very quickly want to pull your hair out in frustration. Especially given that you can carry only a set amount of probes at a time, which means going back to purchase more. While you can get upgrades to the Normandy to help you carry more probes, and the speed of the scanner, they come too late in the game to be of much help.   9) There is a screen you'll encounter quite often through the game. The Mission Complete screen. It tells you how much money, and what else you found or earned during the mission. Aside from the graphics being horrendous, the screen itself is pointless. You will recieve rather large prompts each time you get anything (money, codex entry, find something). Even if you get a special reward, it will tell you on that screen and then again a rather large prompt after you exit the Mission Complete screen.    10) Level Up Screen...Every time you select a squad, land for a single mission complete a mission you will be hit with the Level Up Screen. You can thankfully turn this one off by going into the options screen and choosing Autolevel All, but this has a big price. The game favors powers above all else, and that can be a detriment. So it's basically a choice as to what you want to do.   11) The Party Health & Shield status was redone......It is impossible to tell how anyparty member is doing. You have a little bitty icon of their face just below your own status bar. When their icon is normal they are fine and have shields (though you don't know if their shields are full or not). When they are flashing red they are taking damage. Grey means they died. There is no more saving them with a timely Medigel (or in this case, use of Unity).     THE MIXED   1) The ability of being able to give your squad some minor orders is a good inclusion. You can position them in places that will help battles out. The downside is that when you don't, the party members are hyper agressive chasing after enemies and leaving Shepard possibly high and dry.    2) The graphics of ME 2 have many praises to be sung, but unfortunatly not only are there glitches but things that leave you scratching your head and just wondering "why".   Praises start with the Character Models, they are smoother and more real looking than ever before. The new Heavy Weapons definatly got a love graphically. All armor is beautifully rendered. From the opening sequence with the damaged Normandy, to Omega, to the instalation Jack wants destroyed, Collector locations, and even the high class Ilium, Bioware/EA delivered beautifully on conveying a dingy downside to the ME Universe.   Glitches do plauge the game graphically, there are many times when you'll partially fall through objects, or look through somebody's head.   Will all the love shown to the Heavy Weapons, there is a major let down as the remaining standard game weapons are just done with minimal effort.   There are a lot of retrographics that feel out of place and detract quite a bit from the overall experience of the game. These include the numerous loading screens, shuttle take off sequence, and  shuttle landing sequences. These retrographics, especially the ones for the elevator and dealing with the shuttle, give the distinct impression that something was meant to go there but wasn't done due to time constraints for game release.    THE QUESTIONABLE   1) The removal of the old overheat system, and replacing it with Ammo has to be the most controversial change to Mass Effect 2. This is explained in the manual as  "After analyzing geth advances, the Alliance retrofitted every weapon in service with a thermal clip system developed by the geth". Which makes no sense given that the Pulse Rifle X (a beam weapon) from Mass Effect had 33 shots before overheat and any other Assault Rifle X had nearly double that. The HSW X more than double. While some did not like the old Overheat system, the infinate shots is one of the many things that drew in players who did not like shooters in general. This decission alone could potentially loose a number of fans.    2) Sadly, past relationships can't be renewed. You do get a chance to speak with former love interests, but it isn't a pleasant experience. Hopefully, if your Shepard didn't develop a new love interest in ME 2, you can pick things back up with the love from the origional Mass Effect.   3) Shepards appearance can change based on if he goes the Paragon or Renegade path. No matter how you look, it has no bearing on how you are treated.   OVERALL  I gave this such a low score for a number of reasons. First and foremost, that the game itself feels incomplete. The lack of banter, the inclusion of sloppy as well as retrographics, the miniship flying in the Galaxy Map that makes me feel like the old arcade game Asteroids, and fewer choices to be made are just some of the things that give that feel.  The weak story, not just about the Ammo but in general. Shepard fought Cerebus but now he easily accepts them with very little arguement. Also Shepard gets reinstated as a SPECTRE yet he's seemingly banned from the Presidum of the Citadel.   The desire for a darker side to the Mass Effect Universe is all well and good, but had too few lighthearted moments to break up the    Finally I just don't agree that turning Mass Effect 2 primarily into a 3rd person shooter was a good idea. Doing so alienates those who enjoyed the RPG portion of the origional game. (Yes I would be saying the reverse if they went RPG heavy and less shooting)   NOTE  I did not include all things that I could have in any of the sections.  
