ME2 have good things mixed with bad choices in a frustrating package. They resolved some of the bad choices in ME 1 in a fluid manner, but decided to spoil it in other areas.   The good:  - great graphics and looking alive locations  - one of the best story seen in years with cutscenes to match the emotional impact  - fluid, alert and nasty combat situations. The powers had been downsized and share a universal cooldown, but this is more fun. You`re not supposed to jump straigth into enemy lines and survive heavy fire like in ME1.  - huge background information about technology, species, weapons, etc.  - stable engine    The bad:  - no more looting and direct weapon/armor customization, a bad choice for a RPG. Also, there is not enough diversity when acquiring pieces for defence and combat, including guns, armor and mods.  - long loading screens  - running inside the ship to heal companion`s emotional scars get cumbersome after a while. We are on a military ship, make them come to Shepard.  - they spent around 125 billion credits on Project Lazarus and Normandy 2, but refuse to give Shepard a mission fund. As such, you are obligated to bypass, scavenge, hack whenever possible for `huge` rewards (I got a safe wall with 125 credits once. It really saved the day !)  - Paragon points for lies and violence (!?)  - every NPC is cold, even your companions sometimes. The only ones alive enough were the doctor, after a shot of brandy, Conrad and the asari matriarch bartender from Eternity, Nos Astra.  - boring minigames like planet scanning, bypass and hack  - Esc as menu is always a bad choice. Make Enter the default key  - you don`t exit the stations/planets to Normandy. Instead, the ship is leaving, making the comeback another lost time.  - no easy acces to companion levelling and weapon swap  - NO SAVE GAME INSIDE A MISSION. This is the least FPS desirable point in a RPG, because Autosave it`s not good enough.   I believe ME2 is slightly better than ME1, but a lot of work should be invested in a more intuitive and fast gameplay.   
