I loved the first Mass Effect, which I played through and completed 3 times. Unfortunately, many of the things I enjoyed so much from the first game were either changed or stripped entirely.   My main gripes:   There is no more armor or weapon collecting, which is a main element of RPG's.    You can't change weapons or armor when you want; you can only do so at a predetermined location, which makes no sense in an RPG.   The shooting and biotic mechanics that felt good in the first game have   been turned into a poor Gears of War copy, completely void of the excitement and fluidity that game brings. Also, there are about 1/3 as many power and upgrade choices available in Mass Effect 2 compared to the first game, feeling way too toned down.   Finally, and perhaps most important to me, the sense of wonder you got from the first game is largely absent.    You are treated to a Mission Complete/stats screen whenever leaving a planet, something that could not feel more awkward and out of place, and something that really kept me from getting immersed into the game universe.  The galactic map with the nicely done artwork and large-scale planets in Mass Effect 1 is replaced with poorly done, cartoonish looking worlds (with less effort put into world names, being treated to gems like 'Beach Thunder') . Now, instead of being able to land on a planet, search for point of interest yourself, and look up at the sky to see something like two planets ripping each other apart due to interacting atmospheres, you get to move a cursor around the planet to find 1 of only 4 possible materials. Great.   While I'm not trying to say that there weren't some problems with the way the vehicle mechanics were handled in the first game, and the planet layouts weren't always the best, it actually made you feel like you were exploring the galaxy yourself.   The conversations and dialogues are the high point of this game, which are done great. Character models and most environments are more polished than the first game, with  noticeable improvements to facial animations (especially Shepard's). However, I was less compelled by them due to lack of immersion into the game's world, for reasons previously mentioned.   From my long review, you can see I was eagerly anticipating this game, and really wanted to love it. But in the end, I feel this game is a step back in the franchise.
