First, let me begin by saying that the first Mass Effect is quite easily one of my favorite RPGs of all-time...that perfect blend of engaging storyline, RPG elements, and combat depth brought about a futuristic feel and addictive experience that only comes once in a while.  So, quite needless to say, this game become one of my most sought after games for some time (pre-ordered months in advance, constantly reading reviews, making plans around its release with girlfriend and friends, etc.).  What I got when I opened the package and began playing for the first time was a series of let downs.  When first I discovered the complete elimination of an inventory screen (or an inventory in general) with the disappearance of item drops to boot, I stayed the course with complete faith in Bioware as they have yet to disappoint me from their previous releases.  Then more and more elements became clear that gave this game what seemed to be a more rushed/streamlined feeling from the original.  That expansive feel of the first game seems to be missing in most elements of its sequel.  For example, the Citadel felt as big as it was hailed to be (from the thoughts and opinions of NPCs throughout the first game), yet in the sequel it has become a disappointing mish-mash of bland colors, side stores, and sporadic interaction.  About half of the beings on the Citadel with whom you can interact are cookie-cutter salesman, all of which provide the exact same service...no service, considering everything is now automated!  It just does not feel like the sprawling space-city that was so impressive from the first.  More to expand on the game's claustrophobic feel, it seems that every side quest I have stumbled upon throughout the galaxy has little to no substance, a terribly linear/streamlined layout, and lacking in variety.  Sure you can explore the galaxy through the Galaxy Map on board the Normandy as you could in the first, but the vast majority can only truly be explored through a terribly monotonous mini-game as you fire probe after probe onto the surface of some random planet for resources...long dead is the ability to actually explore the surface of a new planet.  Even the main quest line quests have a linear feel that seems to stand out even more than the first.  The classes have also been stripped down to only a few abilities...each class has only a handful of abilities, with each being maxed at level 4, creating a situation to where if you and I both play this game through, by the time you reach roughly level 20, there is virtually no difference between one soldier and another, or one biotic and another, etc.  On top of that, your supporting cast has been stripped down even further, as each has only two skills, with one additional that can be unlocked after completing their personal side-quest.  Weapons provide another significant disappointment, as you only have a few varieties in each class throughout the game, and once you find a new one, the previous you had become all but obsolete, making it basically a no brainer to go ahead and use the newly discovered weapon (which are, VERY few and far between by the way).  All of this being said, the combat is much improved in the way that the cover system makes getting into and out of cover much easier and more realistic...however, combat is terribly easy as the handful of skills you have to use are almost overpowered, and regenerate so fast that you rarely find yourself in a battle where you are desperately defending your position while waiting for that ability's cool-down to expire.  All in all, the graphics still look great, the storyline is interesting as expected, and the combat is still fun.  But the RPG aspect of this game seems to be something of an afterthought, as the customization of your character/squad (which is one of the best things about an RPG) is all but gone.  Make no mistake, this is still a decent game, and can still be addicting in its own right...but as a sequel, it has thus far been a huge let-down, and makes me wonder if Bioware's intention with this series was to dumb it down to a point of almost non-significance.
