Call me old fashioned, but I preferred the days before every single game was pitched as part of a trilogy. Not that there's anything wrong with the idea of trilogies (before all the Star Wars fans come to beat my door down), but in practice they tend to promote lazy writing techniques. Cliffhangers, deus ex machina and unresolved plot threads are all thinly justified by the: 'it'll be explained later' excuse, and as a starving angsty writer nothing irritates you more than seeing other writers committing the cardinal sins of storytelling and being assured of further publication for it. Assassin's Creed comes to mind as a prime example, having not one but two plots and of which neither are even vaguely resolved – not that I expected either resolution to involve anything other than a pithy attempt to jump on the Dan Brown bandwagon anyway. It's curious then that I'm complaining about a storyline trend in relation to a Bioware game, because Bioware have always excelled in the writing department, so if anyone could pull off a decent trilogy it would be them, right?  Wrong. The real irony here is that the problem with Mass Effect 2 is that the story doesn't feel at all like it's a part of the trilogy, it seems like a completely different and unrelated narrative. It seems that despite pitching the game as a trilogy, Bioware were a teeny bit afraid that newcomers might get turned off by unfamiliarity, so they opted to practically start all over again. The memorable foes from ME1 are nowhere to be seen. After making a big deal about you being able to import your character like in the good ol' days of Baldur's Gate, the first thing they do is kill him and promptly bring him back to life – a ridiculous plot reset device made only more hilarious by the warnings peppered throughout the loading screens telling you not to die lest you become unable to import your character into the next game. Don't worry though, I'm willing to bet they'll just let you play with another vat-grown Shepherd and the results will be nary different.  You see, the real reason you would want to dig out your old savegame is because supposedly your decisions in the previous game would impact in this installment. In practice, the continuity is laughable at best. In the previous game I destroyed the labs of the futuristic equivalent of the National Socialists: their reaction was to bring me back to life, give me a new ship and politely request that I might help them out, if I've got a moment. They might as well be completely different games. Nothing you did seems to have the slightest effect on the gameworld in Mass Effect 1, except for occasionally making characters go: "Oh yes, remember that time you did such-and-such?" Even the game's ending has no real bearing on the sequel, as no matter who survives to form a new council they will both try to cover everything up and refuse to commit to any serious work. It's a clever dig at the inherent flaws of democracy, Bioware, but it undermines the point of ever wanting to import your old character.  Thankfully the story in this game, considered on its own merits rather than what it contributes to the trilogy, is brilliantly delievered with Bioware's characteristic mastery of pacing. Events unfold leaving you hankering for more. Characters develop and reveal their past, helped in no small amount by incredible voice acting. This game boasts what comes close to an 'all star' cast, including Martin Sheen, Seth Green and Kerrie-Ann Moss. If there is one thing that will keep you playing this game, it's the story. Part of the reason it's so good, however, is that it is just Mass Effect 1 ad verbatim. Shepherd's Robocop rebirth aside, the two plots are a mirror image of each other, both revolving around the slow discovery of a hostile alien force and a protracted search for the means to stop them. Mass Effect 2 isn't so much the second part in the trilogy as it is a remake of the original.  Another reason I find it difficult to associate these two products is that they don't sit very closely together in terms of core gameplay. Mass Effect 1 was an RPG, no matter how you sliced it. It had lengthy dialogue trees, multiple skillsets to invest in and of course a constant stream of gear upgrades to manage. Mass Effect 2, by comparison, can't seem to decide what it is. The RPG elements have all been toned down, presumably again for fear of alienating players who might have to learn a scary new mechanic or two. The dialogue is still present, but instead of finding better gear you have to mine resources to upgrade it RTS style, and the skill choices have been trimmed down to about three or four per character. If I was a 'professional' reviewer I'd probably say something along the lines of "the game seamlessly blends gameplay elements from a variety of genres", but instead I'll go for the old 'jack of all trades, master of none' adage. There's little satisfaction to be had from any of the individual elements here. The resource mining is utterly boring: imagine if in Warcraft III they made you look for the damn gold yourself instead of sending peasants to mine it. The RPG customisation is really only on the level that comes attached as standard to most shooters these days. Speaking of shooters, the combat has received the biggest shakeup, with the addition of a completely arbitrary ammo system, standard life regeneration and cover-based gameplay – all of which makes the combat side of the game feel like another shameless Gears of War clone. ME1's combat system was never going to light the world on fire, but it worked in the context of an RPG. ME2's combat by comparison feels shallow and dry, because it fails to break up the monotony with interesting set pieces where playing whack-a-mole from behind a crate isn't an option. In the previous game, cover was a backup plan for when the proverbial excrement hit the fan, and I personally remain convinced that this is the proper way to handle cover, despite the constant precession of games that equate forcing you to constantly solder yourself to walls with being 'tactical'.  Ultimately I was disappointed with Mass Effect 2, and ironically not because it abused the privileges of a trilogy, but because it felt like it had very little to do with Mass Effect 1. The story is about the only thing tying the two games together, and it's also just about the only reason I played it as far as I did. I hate to be all cynical here, but unless ME3 goes back to its roots I see this as the first sign of a downward spiral for Bioware, where they start trying too hard to jump on the console shooter bandwagon and alienate their RPG fans in the process. 
