I had high hopes for this game but I was severly disappointed when I brought this game home and found that the game I loved was striped clean of everything I loved.  First, they implemented a horrible ammo system that not only makes the games combat annoying it also takes away from the story.  If you remember the back story on guns in ME using just blocks of metal that the gun shaves off.  Well I guess now they are lasers or some crap cause now they use thermal clips.  Also they COMPLETLY threw out the old inventory and skill system.  I can understand the inventory system a little.  It was awkward to have a giant list of guns you dont use but they could have done so much more except throw it out.  It makes the game very boring and unprogressive.  As for the skill system....if you liked having all the skills that were in ME1....well too bad...they are all gone.  They only have 5 or 6 bars 4 skill points to fill them.  This eliminates all character customization.  My character from ME2 looked like mine from ME1 ....but he sure didnt fight like him.  Another things that they threw out was the story and missions.  It took me 3 days to beat the main story and ALL the side missions!  It seems as though the developers rushed through the creation of the story since it isnt very good.  There are no twists or turns to the game and you follow just one base objective through the hole game.  I was extremly dissapointed because like ME1 I was expecting a twist in the game but sadly I found out that everything you think is going to happen ...happens....like every other story in the world your the hero...and you save the universe...woopee! :/  At no point is there a sense of struggle.  Your attacking this supposidly universal threat and you just stroll right in and blow it up.  I think the people who think this game is better than the first or even a well made game are people with a very low imagination or very low skill.  I found no challenge in this game and no interesting story....it all felt taked on.  I hope that ME3 is gonna be a better game.  They should implement a larger story line that is well written with many sub quests that actually make sense to do.  I mean there is one sub quest where all you do is turn on a generator with no opposition...the most boring thing I have ever done. I think for ME3's sake this game should be played if you have the hope that ME3 will be good.  But ME2 is a very dissappointing game...it doesnt feel like ME anymore.
