First, let me just say I thought Mass Effect 2 ended on a good note.  The final mission in the Collector's base was an epic one, and although the plot twist towards the end was kind of a let down (won't spoil anything), it was a satisfying end to an awesome game.  Since then, Bioware has released a ton of DLC to keep Shepard's journey going in the galaxy of Mass Effect 2.  Some of this DLC was excellent like Lair of the Shadow Broker.......and then there's Arrival.  For the final DLC add on for Mass Effect 2, Bioware decided to bridge the gap between this game and the upcoming sequel, Mass Effect 3.  To an extent, Arrival is action packed and it does fulfill its purpose, but is it really worth it?   *spoiler warning for those who haven't played Mass Effect 2*   The story starts off some time after the end of Mass Effect 2; the Collector's base destroyed and all.  Shepard receives a call from Admiral Hackett who informs you of a deep cover agent being held by Batarians, known as Dr. Kenson.  It appears as though she holds a deadly secret concerning the Reapers that threatens the entire universe.  This catches Shepard's attention and so he/she accepts the mission.   That's all I'll spoil for now but I will tell you this: apparently the secret is that the Reapers are, in fact, coming......yeah, because we didn't know that yet.  The story is an interesting set up I suppose but it just feels lacking.  There's only a few minutes of dialogue out of the 2 hours it takes to complete this mission and the only two characters you interact with are Dr. Kenson and Hackett (although it is nice to actually see Hackett in person this time).  The other problem is it offers nothing to your story.  There are no major decisions to make, if any at all, that will affect your file in Mass Effect 3, and I doubt your experience will be any different should you decide to skip Arrival.  From Bioware, I expected more out of story and dialogue.   At the very least, the combat is quite enjoyable.  Since this mission is more covert than your typical task, you will be going in alone without any support from your squadmates this time around.  This is interesting but it's too bad that your favorite characters have to be left out.  The combat is as intense as it ever was and being alone changes the pace as more is expected from the player.  No more can you depend on your squad to take bullets for you or kill certain enemies, this is all based on YOUR skill.   The mission will only last you about 2-3 hours but the places you fight in are interesting enough.  You start off in an abandoned prison where you must break Kenson out, then onto a space station on top of an asteroid where most of the mission will take place.  Each battle is to a large scale and going solo means you have to change your strategies.  You aren't completely covered and you are easily flanked due to no support.  These firefights are thrilling enough and there is plenty of action to enjoy, but it is over before you know it.  The best part is the final area of the lab.  I won't spoil it, but it looks and feels incredible....even though it is a bit brief.   However, while the action and firefights may seem thrilling, that doesn't make up for the fact that Mass Effect 2's final DLC pack ends the game on a disappointing note.  The mission is over after over 2 hours with all action and no other substance; no choices that affect the next game and not much reason to own this DLC pack period.  It's fun while it lasts but there is much reason to own this new conclusion to the second Mass Effect.  I suppose Arrival does fulfill its goal of bridging the gap between Mass Effect 2 and 3 but it doesn't add much that we didn't already know and it's a plot so simple, you might as well just spend 5 minutes looking it up rather than pay $7 to play for 2 hours.
