As a long time GTA fan which finished all GTA games on pc and ps2 minimum 10 times in a row i waited for GTA 4! Everybody talked about this game like best in history of video gaming the best of the best and many others...so GTA IV was released on PC and consoles at the same time and guess what....TOTAL FAILURE!!! You have to install some rockstar social club then register and everything just after few hours you can play this game what kind of crappy ad this is? nobody wants this type of thing on games espacially with pc games which are using only for stupid ads that you buying!   Graphics: are you kidding me? i have strong machine to run games but even with strong machine and with the PATCH!!! i still cant run this game on High quality sometimes i get 15 fps WTF? Just pathetic reqs driving nuts!! what kind of NASA computer need to run this awful game? whatever moving on...   Story: so you Nico Bellic from Gruzia or Russia something like that. So anyway yor cousin Roman tells a great lies about great life in America unfortuanatly you found it diffrent..so Roman is in big toruble of debts and you have to help him becouse howewer you dont have a choice. So you work with some big time criminals you find new friends and whatever i didnt play this game for long....   Missions: booring, reppetetive, drive from point a to point b, kill him, get money back, drive here again really basic stuff except Bank robbery which was awesome missions but considering that is one good mission from 150 missions thing sucks in this game!!! really badly to say at least...   Gameplay: Booring, you dont really have a lot to do it in this damn city, and you have pathetic things like watch tv in the game, go to internet cafe well paint a car what else i dont know...   Overall: its a crappy pathetic game with reqs that you gonna have to use NASA computers to run this game, total letdown i cant pelieve some dumb people gave this a 9 or even 10 it doesnt deserve it! Dont buy it! Before playing this game please advise with doctor or dispenser!
