I really, really had high hopes for this game. I've never yet had any problems with any new pc game except this one. Fallout3, Crysis, COD4, for example run smooth as silk with no issues. This game was ported to PC very prematurely and it shows with installation problems, horrible framerates, and graphical glitches.    Installation Nightmares:  Where to start? First the DVD autorun must be set to windows xp sp2 compatibility mode just to install on Vista SP1 otherwise you get, and i quote, an error message saying 'Cannot install on windows %P'. Whats %P? Once the game is finally installed you must run the game executables in Windows 2000 compatibility mode to get it to run. No other option works. Otherwise you get an error message stating 'Fatal Error RMN20'. Once that problem is fixed you have to change the compatibility mode for every other exe file in the installation directory EXCEPT rgsc.exe or you get a new crash: 'RGSC.exe has stopped responding'... If it werent for google and user discussion forums no one would have a working copy of this game.    Framerate Issues  My PC gets 11400 3dmarks in 3dmark06 and I found no matter what my resolution or selected graphics options nothing would remove the chop (even tweaking game-level quality options in Nvidia control panel). This coming from other games where I can run my native resolution of 1680x1050 with FSAA and FSAF cranked its left me a little P.O. After reading a few forums I found even people on SLI rigs are having the same problem.    Worse still.. Graphical anomalies. Did rockstar even try a installation and trial run of this game on at least one test system? Clearly this is an indication that rockstars main goal was immediate profit by rushing this pc port of a console game at the expense of their valued customers. Im assuming their theory was: 'Who cares we can just patch it later on' Wasting entire nights of john doe consumer troubleshooting and writing their woes in forums and reading discussion groups'. Just look at gamespots ratings. A 10 out of 10 game getting 7? For shame such an excellent game has gone to waste.
