After a few days of playing, I finally had the words to accurately describe my feelings towards the much-beloved GTA IV: "GTA IV is like that friend you had when you were 13. You thought he was cool because he wore the latest pair of Air Jordans, gratuitously and uncompromisingly dropped the F-bomb, and was fun to hang out with in short bursts until he started to get on your nerves." The review on this site, and many of the users on this site, have given GTA IV a perfect rating. I have disagreed with some highly-beloved, and highly-rated games in the past (most notably Halo, particularly numbers two and three), but I find that giving a perfect rating to such an obviously flawed game is absolutely egregious.    Let me explain ... First off, with this being the "next gen" of gaming, many games try to pass of snazzy graphics as a cloak to disguise horrible game design. I find this not only to be true with GTA IV, but I don't even find the graphics that appealing. In every cut scene I watch, I cringe at the modeling done on Niko, the main character's face. It looks like his face is made out of leather that can't be reshaped in any way. The lighting on his face is weird, as well, as he seems to have a such a constant spot of light under one of his eyes that he might as well just be wearing a bandage there. I am a few hours into the game, but I've really only found one, maybe two characters that I found believable to the point where graphics pretend to be nowadays, where I almost thought that it was actually a person who was recorded, and not a digital image. I know I may take heat for this later on, so let me remind the readers: I do not rate games on graphics purely for their "realism." I rate games based on the look they were going for, and what they actually pulled off. Here, I feel that GTA IV fails. Additionally, in the options menu, the game has a  "brightness" setting, which I turned to the brightest it could be and I STILL have trouble distinguishing the finer details at night, such as cars, people, turns, poorly lit streets, etc. I have also outdriven the draw distance on this twice. Once was nothing major: just a few barrels on the side of the road that popped up out of nowhere. However, the other was about three or four seconds of me driving on a gray slab with generic block walls on the side of the street before the game caught up and rendered the textures. This, in this day and age of high technology, where foreground and background textures can be buffered as you are approaching different areas, is entirely unacceptable.   As with all of the GTA games, the sound is superb. The radio stations and the street chatter are all of an excellent quality. Some of the voice acting is absolutely atrocious, though. The main thing that bothered me, though, was not so much the voice acting, but the dialog that was created for the characters and street chatter. (This is where I actually picked up the previously mentioned reference to the 13-year old.) I have absolutely no problem with profanity and will casually drop a four-letter word here and there with no second thoughts. However, even I, as mentioned, find the use of this to be, to quote what I said in the first paragraph, "gratuitous and uncompromising." It's hard to listen to a character and take them seriously when all they do is drop those bombs.   The value of GTA games is always high, with a high amount of missions, side-missions, and hidden package-type pickups. As this game is not currently holding my interest, I will probably not pursue 100% ... I don't even know if I'll complete the story (more on that in a bit). (Update to this ... see below.) However, there are plenty of things to do in Liberty City and you can even take your game online for multiplayer matches, if that's your thing. (I personally don't see the appeal of online play like this unless it's with a couple of your friends or to make new friends. This "battle anyone just to become number one even if it means dealing with cheating and giving up your life outside of the game" mentality that's sweeping up gamers these days does nothing more than perplex me.) However, for me, this game held virtually 0 value as I not only have no motivation for 100%, but no motivation to even complete the story.   Ah ... the gameplay ... I've been licking my chops in order to rip into the game, as this has been the most frustrating part for me. I'll get a few of the good things out of the way first: every car that you are in will trace a path to your objective, destination, or waypoint via your GPS system. This can really help you learn the city and find the best and quickest routes. The aiming is improved and you can even take cover (in addition to crouching). HOWEVER, I find it to be nothing other than a broken control scheme if while auto-aiming from behind, you can manual aim by moving the right analog stick, and then fire using the O button, which also must be hit with the right thumb. I guess you can try holding R1 with your middle finger, adjusting the aim with your thumb, and firing with your index finger, but we're not all double-jointed. Since you can't move (left analog stick) when you're behind cover I guess it would be too much to ask Rockstar to use that as your manual aim or to still use the right for your manual aiming, but have the option to press R3 to fire. I wasn't sure where to put this next point, so I guess here is just as good as anywhere. As your character is Russian, but speaks predominantly English, he will occasionally toss in a few Russian phrases, which are translated in the subtitles. Since the chances are highly probable that a majority of the people who play this game will not be fluent in both Russian AND English, would it be too much to ask that the Russian translations be put up on screen as a "forced stream" subtitle? Again, I guess it would. Another thing about the subtitles is that one of your contacts speaks heavily in jargon which is either standard speak for Jamaicans or a stereotype of said standard. I remember in Vice City, your Jamaican contact spoke exactly the same, but those subtitles were not only translated into "normal" English but were only during cut scenes. I can't understand one thing this dude is talking about whether or not I read the subtitles, in addition to the fact that it's difficult to read them while driving at top speeds. That brings me to my biggest complaint about the game: the driving. The mechanic is DRASTICALLY changed from the previous GTA's. In III and Vice City, driving was fun because, while it wasn't "crash into anything you want to without due regard or consequences" a lรก the Need for Speeds, it definitely had an arcade-y feel that I found comforting in the fact that it was easy to get used to, a bit of a challenge, but still fun. The new driving mechanic feels more like something out of Gran Tourismo. I don't consider chasing after someone or running from the cops, touching the e-brake for a split second to make a sharp turn, and spinning out of control a full 360ยบ as I crash into everything in site and wreck up my car to be very fun. I also don't consider it fun when I'm going over a bridge and I don't stop to pay a toll and have to spend the next five minutes outrunning the cops before I begin my next mission. Yes ... PAYING A TOLL. Another "yeay for realism, boo for videogaming" moment that I had was having someone chasing me and shooting at my car and watching not only my car's health, but my character's health decrease, as well. Yeah, great, random bullets are hitting me, but when my car gets trashed from both bullets and the ATROCIOUS driving mechanic, I now have to go running around the city trying to jack another car while at or below 50% health. Another thing that bothers me is the introduction to the story. In GTA III, your character gets double-crossed on a bank heist. In Vice City, it was a drug deal gone wrong. (I won't even bother mentioning San Andreas ... I was not a fan.) Here, I watch as Niko goes on his first date (early in the game) and telling the girl that he's trying to keep his nose clean and try to start a good life in a new country. Then I watch as the next two missions he drives someone over to a lockup with some "hot parts" in it and then watches over a drug deal with a gun at the ready. What is his motivation? The final thing that irks me about this game is the "friendship" bullcrap that you have to deal with and the other pointless junk put in the game. You can take your friends to bars, grab a bite, or even take them bowling or to play darts. Not only is this an aspect of the game I find to be tacked on for no good reason (yes, you can get rewards from them, but let me finish), but it's already annoying me early in the game and I only have three people to please, in addition to having just met a few more. And those rewards that I mentioned are not permanent. Yes, just because you earn a reward, does not give you the right to say "OK, mission accomplished ... onto the next friend." No, if you ignore your friend and the "status" drops below a certain point, not only do you lose the reward, but it's harder to get back than it was to get in the first place.   As I would assume is obvious right now, this game is not very important to me or my collection. The only reasons I am trying to complete, at the very least, the story are because I've heard that it's very good and I'm STILL (a year later) trying to justify my purchase of this $500 piece of hardware that's done nothing except allow me to re-play my PS2 games with wireless controllers. After dropping $60 on this (on a pre-order no less, although I did save on shipping), I'm now looking to Hitman, Splinter Cell (only a temporary 360 exclusive), God of War, and Resident Evil to be my justification.   Actual score: 5.4  Gameplay: 5  Graphics: 7  Sound: 8  Value: 6  Tilt: 4
