I am a huge, HUGE fan of the GTA series. I remember playing GTA3 with my friends all night, and having Vice City and San Andreas wrecking my grades because I couldn't stop playing it. This is not the case now.   First I will say that I applaud Rockstar for making such a great environment. The game has excellent graphics, which is suprising since the environment is so very huge. The voice acting is very superb also. Characters are great, and full of life as well.   But not even that could save the game.   For one, the missions are extremely boring. They are incredibly repetitive. Other games are repetitive, but this game just seems to stand out for some reason. The game is also very slow, in a lot of ways. The pacing in the story mode is atrocious, and the missions are stale. Niko is slow, and feels very fat when running. His fighting combat is also slow and silly looking, and Niko can't jump to save his life.  The cellphone is the most important thing in the game, but it feels so useless since you can't see ANYTHING of what's on it. Why can't Rockstar put in a backlight in their phone?? It is also really clunky to manage.    I hate the gun combat in GTA4. The over the shoulder is not as smooth as Gears of War for example. Locking-on is a chore because it nearly always locks on the wrong person. The gun sounds are horrendous as well. The pistol sounds like a Warthog crashing into a wall. To be honest, I'm not even sure if headshots work in GTAIV. I always aim for the head, but it always seems to take more than one shot to make the kill, which is a bummer.    Driving mechanics are also terrible. They aren't realistic at all, its faker than the other games. It feels like the Dukes of Hazzard, where everyone is drifting for every turn. The smallest turn I take in full speed will leave me facing the wrong way. The smallest turns I take driving at medium speed will leave me driving on people and lamp  posts. Driving like all the other cars in the games is the way Rockstar wants you to go. But even that is bizzarely unrealistic, because all the cars seemingly go like 10 miles an hour. It's slow and boring.   Possibly the only good thing to come to GTAIV is online play. Playing with other friends is an excellent thing to do, but something I can't really do. For one, they really need to close the maps into different levels. I'm tired of spawning in the other side of the map when i'm free roaming. Closing the maps could also allow for split-screen, which the game desperately needs. Some game types are pretty cool, and some aren't. Some of them need a lot of fixing to make them better.    To sum it all up, GTAIV is (to me) the worst game in the series. Story is boring and repetitive, and even when free roaming, the game mechanics just don't work right. The game, although its beautiful, is a chore to play. The only real upgrade that is worth mentioning is online play, but even that has its issues that makes me question if I really want to play it again. If this game weren't my brother's, it would already be sold.    Feel free to write me back.
