If you are brand new to the GTA series skip this reveiw and go buy this game, otherwise please read my review.   Before I go into greater detail about the game let me begin by saying i have played through GTA 2, 3, VC, and SA in the past. I have never been this disapointed with a GTA title. The game is getting all 10's from pro reviews and all I can conclude is they MUST be getting paid to write them. This game is far, far from a 10 and i refuse to pay for content updates to perfect the game(aka patches, that BTW are free for most computer games.)    Story: The story is ok although I personally couldn't identify with the main character and I felt his motive throughout the game was not really there. The main character, Miko, just seems to want be everyones lapdog. There are plenty of plot twists and such, but I really didn't find it to be that interesting and Miko gets screwed so often it becomes a reacurring  theme thus making it uninteresting. All the usual GTA sarcasm is there in the fake advertisments and such, which is good for some laughs. Some of the sub characters are interesting though and i did enjoy them. I also felt like Roman, Miko's cousin was such an idiot i wanted to whack him the second i stepped of the boat. Just an overall bad choice of main characters, and a decent overall plot. (I'm tring to avoid spoilers here).   Depth: Here is where GTA 4 takes a huge step back to 2001 (when gta 3 came out). The utter lack of things to do astounds and baffles me. There is barely anything to customize or spend your money on. There are a few sets of cloths, the weapons you would expect, nothing more, food, and a few other pointless things. What is the point of exploring the city when there is no reward for doing so, the city feels empty due to 99% of the buildings being closed off. The ability to watch TV and surf the internet is overhyped by the reviewers and not really that great. I just got bored quickly and went back to doing missions and didn't spend the "hours" doing it some reviewers claimed. It's not bad, but certainly not a selling point for most GTA fans and more of a gimmick if anything at all. GTA 4 overall feels like GTA 3 in the depth category, and I, for one, feel it should be included in release and not charged to download at a later date.   Gameplay: Also somewhat of a letdown, mainly because of A. no mission check points and B. cars cannot turn at all at high speeds. Now, all cars handle differntly, but one thing is for sure, good luck on the high speed chases and races. These are so infuriating because one wreck and they get away, leaving you to start at the very beinging of the mission. I have never had trouble with the chases this much in the past, but when you have to slow down to crawl to be able to make a turn, it makes the chases ridiculous, although they are beatable you just need some paitence. The new cover system is good, pretty much becoming an industry standard and nothing of importance really to note. The camera can sometimes be an issue, but this was rare for me. Being able to take a cab anywhere in the city is a nice touch too. The sheer amount of cops is insane (as usual) and be prepared to get a wanted level if you accidenltly hit a cop car (happens more often then you would think and is annoying). Otherwise, the gameplay is the same tried and true formula of go kill X for Y reward, in Z way. This gets pretty old, especially if you are a GTA vetern. Also, the new dating missions (whether you are on a date with a girl or hanging out with friends) are not fun and if you don't do them you lose respect with that person, i think they are over emphisized for their weak addition to the game. There is some variety but nothing like what i experienced in Vice City or San Andreas, and certainly nothing "revolutionary".    Graphics: Overall good, I use a 46 inch LCD HDTV with a 1080p HDMI cable. I felt Miko and the cars looked great, especially the realistic car damage and blood on the winsheild when you shoot someone. The city is kind of grainy/blocky and so are the other residents of Liberty City. Also, I felt a strong need to increase the brightness as it is very hard to see at night. The cinema was great and the characters within moved and talked in a very real-feeling way. There is a nice variety of character models as well. Pop-in can rarely be an issue for me and the framerates were solid. They game is overall good enough looking and don't have many complaints.   Sound: Top-notch voiceacting as usual, however i would heavily favor subtitles as many of the characters have heavy foreign accents. Radio in cars is sub-par, virtually no memorable songs and some hilarious as usual talk stations. The sound for the cars, guns, screams, police, exlposions, ect. are pretty much the same which is a neutral factor to me. One interesting note is when you repeat missions characters with you will say different things.   The online muliplayer is an area I didn't explore and don't desire to play online, I will leave this up to the other reviewers.   In conclusion, this supposed "revolutionary" game I got tired of quickly because it's uninspired from a gaming standpoint and feels like it was geared to be more like a movie with all of its resources geared towards the cinema and dialog which were very good. I feel as though much more will be added in downloadable content packs at a cost which i feel will be unreasonable. The fact that this game got darn near all 10's sickens me, it would be very hard to justify this game being rated above an 8! This game just feels empty after 6 months of delays and I am missing all of the content and customization of San Andreas. GTA vets, please rent before you buy.
