Like most of the big GTA fans, I've played nearly every GTA (excluding the psp specials and GTA london) since GTA 1 back with the top down 2D environment where running over all the Pedestrians in the Elvis parade gave you bonus points and spending almost 5 hours trying to fly a "dodo" from the airport to liberty city island in GTA 3.   The series was and for the most part is phenomenal. What better way to ease your stress than throwing molotov-cocktails at a few minutes of accumulated traffic or playing keepie-uppie with a beach ball or easing game boredom by seeing how long you survive by shooting at police. This is what made GTA, an amalgamation of pointless nonsensical semi-victimless violence, a giant world to exploit with said violence and tons of goals with which to reason it.   Every single one of the GTA series in the past stuck to this formula, always attempting to expand on what the gamer was able to achieve and perform through their anti-hero of crime and mayhem. That is until GTA IV.   GTA IV lacks all form of proper story-line, you come to town save your cousin and wind up killing  all the local crime lords but the storyline is so poorly completed, there is no point to it. As a player you have no sympathy, emotional or intellectual connection to any of the characters and then the game ends. and you think, man that was easy.   During the entire 6 hours "slog" to finish the game, i died all of 16 times each one suicide except for 3 instant death shots from an unavoidable RPG in the last mission and not once was i arrested. that's not bragging folks, I'll proudly state that during vice city i got arrest at least 60 times before game end.   The games lack of diversity makes it futile, in every GTA you are forced to explore because you're sent to some area or other to fulfill a mission. in GTA IV there are no side missions, well very few, and the result is that one of the most intricate and beautiful cityscapes ever to be produced under a GTA title goes almost completely unexplored, so many opportunities for missions go undone.    In GTA IV there is no destruction derby, no irritating package hunt, no bicycle race (no bicycles at all), no car skills tests, no rampages (but SA didn't have either tbh), no tanks, no rocket firing helicopters, no parachutes, no jets, no jet-packs, no time limit A-B races, no basketball, tattoos. Just an undercover GF that disappears, 3 mission choices that end with very little difference to end game, 10 assassin telephone missions a few drug drop off's, a few races,a largely unexplored game environment, 200 fracking pigeons (which are quite fun and challenging to take out with a grenades), and too many loose ends in the storyline.    Not to mention a "liked level" with "friends" who you constantly have to phone to arrange "outings" then drive for 5 minutes to the opposite side of the city to pick up that person then drive back to play a game of pool then drop them off at home (total time for outing = 30 minutes), and if it's a date don't forget to change your clothes back at your hideout and try find the right car. (Next GTA you'll have to brush your teeth and build up skill levels like intelligence and artistic ability by making your character paint the same picture over and over again on an easel that can be purchased for 50 simoleons...)   GTA IV tries to bring a realistic world to a series that is meant to be completely insane and in doing so it fails miserably   But then there is online mode, which might suggest the true reason behind this release. to get GTA into an MMO environment. if that wasn't the goal then Take Two and Rockstar should reassess some decisions because this is probably the worst GTA release out of all of them.
