I consider Gta: San Andreas to be one of the greatest game ever, so I (finally) grabbed a retail version of the game (for 5$ woot) after a few computer upgrades to handle this beast.    Sadly, this is an ok game, but not a good GTA game. To quote one of the stupid song from SA "One step forward, two steps back". The graphics are better, but I find them unappealing. I prefer the cartoony, but clearer graphic of the previous game. The blur, the cheap pastel effect everywhere and the boring colours are my main complaint, but the nails that seal the coffin are the lack of anti-aliasing combined with the terrible performance of the engine. For a game with a 100m$ budget, you sure don't have that impression when you first start it. It feel cheaps, cars looks great, the detail of the streets are fantastic, but the interior, the texture and the characters animation are bland.    The driving physic is also weird. In a weird attempt to create realism, they only created annoyance (for me). Arcade style game-play definitely fit more the kind of games where you can kill 10 cops, run away from a perimeter and instantly become Mother Teresa.    The sounds effect are great, but, unlike the previous game, I found no radio station interesting at all, except maybe the talk-show, but only for a hour or two.    My last grip, Niko is not an interesting character and, at first, he feel like another clone of Tony from Scarface (young immigrant who want to become the boss, like in gta3+VC), but after a while, you realize that this chimpanzee has 0 ambition, so do I to bring him to the top. His lack of intelligence must be relied to his lack of skill to use a safety belt, judging by the number of times he went though the wind-shield during the few hours I played this game (another thing I hate about the driving in this game, you are punished for stupid thing).   Mix that, with the horrible new fetch quests where you have to bring your "friends" to some place (like bowling, restaurant, strip...) to keep a good relation with them (à la the Sims). It's boring, like a never ending and mandatory girlfriend seduction mini of GTA:SA, without the hot coffee mod.    Add a pinch of a terrible storyline and add a bottle of general quest blandness (drive, kill, come back) and you have GTA 4. A poor attempt to build over gta:SA, but it leave the room open for many change in gta 5.  
