...Boring     First off, I made the mistake of playing Episodes from Liberty City before GTA IV. My first impression with the two DLCs was quite positive. I played The Lost and Damned first. The city looked pretty for a 2008 game and the game ran smoothly on my quad core PC even on highest settings. The city was vast and although it didn't seem realistic or 'alive' in the sense real world does, it was more realistic than a city in an Elder Scrolls game, for example. Besides in a socio-psychopath simulator it may be good to keep it a tad unrealistic so kids won't mistake it for reality... :P    Another good thing about both DLCs was how characters acted and sounded like you'd expect from a bunch of semi-retarded bikers or a Dominican small-time criminal.   But the same complaints that I had with the DLCs apply to GTA IV...   The missions:   The missions were extremely repetitive fed-ex or assassination type missions where you see a bunch of people on your magical "GPS" device, track them down and kill them for a laughable pocket money sum. Unfortunately it turned out that head shots are ridiculously easy to get using keyboard + mouse combination so every mission went swimmingly. There should have been more different weapons in the game. Then at least the easy kills would've felt less repetitious.    If for some reason you can't finish the mission you have to start from beginning, which is pretty frustrating.       Cops are extremely easy to lose; just observe the circular radar and drive beyond its range, or as long as you aren't seen, into a Pay 'n' Spray (lol). For me there was no real challenge in the game which was a pity.    My favorite missions were the ones where you get to fly a helicopter, but unfortunately they were few and far between.    Friends:    A new addition to GTA games was the cell phone and having to take a bunch of friends to a bar, fast food joint, bowling etc. They get rather annoying pretty fast and a friend calling you makes you want to throw your brandless cellphone out the car window with a handful of grenades every time.    The strip joint was my favorite hangout, but it got old after a couple visits.    There's not much to say for the mini games like bowling, darts or pool, as the friends always seem to lose in these and I prefer the real life versions anyway.    Characters:    I think the characters were the strong point of the game. The voice acting was great, and the personalities were depicted accurately in appearance.    Story:    IMO the story was the weakest part right after the ridiculously easy difficulty. Although I'm not going to write any spoilers here, I must mention that I was disappointed how the writers resorted to same plot situation twice--where you have to make a decision to kill one of two associates of yours. Anyways, the main storyline was uninteresting to me, but if you're after mindless action rather than a great story, this may not be a big drawback.    Length:   Now I wouldn't have thought I'm going to be saying this about a game that has gotten as high review scores as GTA IV, but it was way too long. It almost makes me wonder what kind of person doesn't get bored in a game like this after a couple weeks..     Difficulty: 1/10  Graphics: 9/10  Missions: 3.5/10  Friends: 2/10  Characters: 10/10  Story: 1.5/10  Length: 2/10   All in all, it's not a bad game, and first hours will probably be pretty fun.     I'll give it a solid 6/10.    
