I was eager to get my grubby hands on this game since GTA IV didn't satisfy me enough since some of the crazy elements featured in the previous GTA titled were not included in GTA IV but it was still quite a good game but this whole expansion thing was pretty hyped up and Rockstar were confident that they would impress the gamer. I on the other hand wasn't impressed to be honest.   After spending the majority of my hard earned XBOX Live points, I finally got the game, and at first it felt great, I was sucked into the game for about the first 3 missions and soon I realised that the Lost & Damned was actually using somewhat the same concept as GTA IV did. The whole biker gangs sounded cool and was a great way to make things more modern and GTA like but it soon just offered some missions that were featured in GTA IV but from the main protagonist's point-of-view.   The missions were normally chases or follow and kill type stuff. There weren't new improvements except that driving bikes were easier. To be honest, your arse was practically stuck to the bike's seat so you hardly fall of. New stunts to be performed and some new dialogue. New characters introduced too but it isn't enough to do justice to the expansion.    The game isn't all that long, just about 8 hours but by the first 2 hours, you've pretty much done everything there is to do, then the rest is just the same missions with different locations and new characters to work for. Nothing else special and while I did accept this style of gameplay in GTA IV, it's just incredibly tedious to go through the same thing in The Lost and Damned.   There are some shocking surprises but I felt that the game wasn't what I was expecting. It was quite pricey but the quality of work was not satisfactory.    Rockstar have recently announced The Ballad of Gay Tony which is the final expansion for GTA IV but that looks promising and something that I'd probably fall in love with. It features some content that was featured in the previous GTA games so it's gunna be crazy so I hope to get it soon.
