I remember the time I heard about GTA IV: It was a motherf*cking bomb. Everyone talked about it, everybody at least heard about it. When it came out, the hype just expanded tenfold. Having seen a lot of reviews by 'professional' reviewers I thought I'd take a rough stab at this hype bomb. Who knows, maybe GTA IV would be at least a decent game by my standards. I couldn't be bothered by looking at the user reviews because their grammar seems to be on the standards of a 3-year old, spouting out words like: 'liek', 'muzt-buy', and so forth... I had played the PC version of San Andreas so... this one, with all those reviews could be a tad bit better.   I bought the PC version because I didn't really liked to play the console version so I installed the thing and went to the settings menu. Oh no, wait. First off you need to install 'Rockstar Club' or some sh*t like that, yeah. It's supposed to be a 'social' club with the purpose of being a hub for all your other Rockstar games. Way to go, Rockstar. Please don't bother us with some bullsh*t freeware that continues to contaminate our systems!   So, alright, I'm finally in the settings menu and what do I find? My brand new system with every piece of hardware to the max can't run GTAIV the the fullest. After staring at that particular moment I said: "Well, yeah, that's fine. As long as the game is good."    Sadly, the graphics may be nice at times but the gameplay just isn't there. You can watch TV, drive a car through a giant city, or do boring minigames with your ingame friends that you HAVE to sit through or else you'll have 'skipped' the entire thing. I mean, wow. The programmers intentionally put it that way so that you need to watch an entire stand-up comedian show (that just annoys you) all the way through!    What's even more frustrating is the fact that you have to do these things sometimes or else you won't be able to do certain content in the game, like unlocking an achievement for example. Rockstar should've just put: "Achievement for being the person with the most free time on their hands." That would've been more appropriate and would've just plainly told the truth.   In fact, the only thing I like about GTAIV is the story. Unlike other protagonists from the previous games, Nico Bellic has a background, purpose and reason for being in Liberty City. If only the gameplay was as exciting as the story I wouldn't complain that much. The missions are repetitive and the objectives are always the same. Go here and kill that.    The sound is good enough but the music just isn't. Most of the time I played the game I needed to shut the radio off because there was clearly not a single radio that could please me, partly because the game itself annoyed me so damn much.   When people talk about GTAIV's 'reality' it makes me cringe. There are indeed a few things that are realistic like the car handling, the infamous toll booth and the cover system but these things aren't necessary! Realism in games isn't necessary developers!! It's. A. Video. Game! It's not supposed to be realistic! How can I put it in another way?? I can't.    You people, and actually all developers in the world should stop making games until they know the true meaning of the word 'fun' and 'fantasy'. Both are the only ingrediënts on how to make a game. Many games these days have only one of these, but GTAIV continues to baffle me for it has neither!    GTA IV might as well be a checklist for how NOT to make a sandbox game. The game feels wrong and IS wrong. It's boring, tedious, repetitive and redundant. I just don't get it, critics! A 10??!! For what? Why? Did somebody put a gun to your head if you didn't gave a motherf*cking 10?!   TOTAL SCORE: 60%
