It's a tragedy. That's the only word in the English language that really sums up this, the most recent installment in the Grand Theft Auto series. With more hype than even Halo 3, GTA IV's commercial success was guaranteed before it ever hit shelves, but sadly, this game lives up to neither the hype nor its notorious predecessors.      The main flaws? Rockstar left out so many features that really made GTA: San Andreas great. Instead of building on the success of that amazing game, they took the series in a new- and in no way better- direction.      One of the first things players will notice is that getting busted is now a whole lot easier than it should be. In San Andreas, your character had to be knocked down while in close proximity to police to be taken in, but not so in GTA IV. Now, getting anywhere near a police officer gets you busted, assuming you haven't yet started firing at them. You'll find yourself getting busted numerous times just because you didn't notice a cop coming up behind you. This is incredibly frustrating, as you lose all of your weapons in the ordeal, and they aren't usually cheap to replace.      Another noticeable flaw is the lack of fixed-wing aircraft (planes). While not necessarily a huge deal, the lack of fly-able planes is off-putting merely because it seems logical that Rockstar should have put them in the game if they put them in San Andreas. It really feels like a downgrade, and a painful one at that.     The third (and most painful) element "missing" from the game is customization, and man is it missing. Whereas in San Andreas you could change your character's hairstyle, body weight, and clothing, in GTA IV, you can only change clothing, and there aren't too many options. Worse yet, IV is missing fun elements like car modification (no hydraulics this time around), properties (you can't actually go out and buy new safehouses- you only have a few available to you now), and engaging environments. Don't get me wrong, Liberty City is a neat place, but when you compare it to the diverse world of San Andreas, where you can hop from casinos to sky scrapers to aircraft carriers to Area 51, it doesn't even come close. The lack of all these elements and a less diverse world leaves the game feeling empty. San Andreas feels completely epic, and yet GTA IV feels like just another day in the city.      Sure, IV has its highlights. You've got an improved combat system including the ability to take cover, but even this feels clunky and poorly implemented. The characters that are so often praised by reviewers turn out to be quite shallow, as your interaction with them is mostly limited to trivial outings. The talking that you do with them on missions (which would be great for character development), only increases the feeling that these characters are flat, with the exception of Niko himself. You won't really find yourself getting attached to these characters at all.     The plot turns out to be underwhelming as well. It starts out with a very promising premise of starting out in NYC as an immigrant, but by the end, you feel like the writers just kind of gave up. The endings (there are 2 that are possible) don't feel like endings at all. There is no real since of finality in them, just an empty exclamation of "You won!"     All in all, GTA IV should really be seen as a failure. It did not live up to the hype, nor did it live up to the expectations set for it by its predecessor, San Andreas. While it packs a visual punch, good graphics are no substitute for good content. In the end, the game feels like an empty shell, a shadow of what it could have been. If you really want my advice: keep playing San Andreas.  -RPGMaster13
