												Nothing needs to be said about how popular Grand Theft Auto is. Rockstar set the gaming world on fire in 2001 and has maintained that momentum for over a decade. Each time one of their games releases, it breaks sales records and gets gaming media buzzing about how grand and epic the game is.When GTA IV launched back in 2008, everyone was anticipating the next best thing. We had a teaser with THQ's Saints Row and wanted an official, next-gen appearance from the franchise that changed open world gaming. While the game broke commercial records and had reviewers handing out 10's for the first time in a long while, the communities reaction was less than favorable.Years later and removed from the hype, is GTA IV really worth digging into? The short answer is no. The game is too damn bloated and scattershot to ever be worth it. The longer answer is still no, but with a bit of explanation involved.Libery City is densely packed and loaded with detail. This truly does feel like a living, breathing city. Even though San Andreas might be larger, it never had as much life as Liberty City does in GTA IV. People walk the streets and go about daily routines. You can eavesdrop on conversations; visit restaurants with vastly different settings; take helicopter tours of the city; take boat rides around.It functions like a true city. It's strange how the video game version of New York is more appealing than the actual New York. Sadly, that's about all the praise I can give this setting. When the missions chime in, a lot of good will is lost.The control scheme is a bit awkward. Niko moves slowly and lumbersome. It's hard to maintain cover and not get hit a lot, despite the aiming being too forgiving. Headshots are basically a second nature without so much a thought going into their placement.But the general feel of walking around the city is just so damn slow. Niko walks like he is drunk all the time and doesn't give a damn about punctuality. You often go to jump over fences and miss or fall off ladders despite pressing the correct button. It's infuriating, especially when you die unexpectedly.The missions also just repeat. San Andreas had a lot of fun with the hysterical nature of being a video game. You got plane missions, jetpacks, crop turbines and a weird spoof of DDR. GTA IV is basically kill, kill, kill a whole lot, then kill some more.The story and missions gel decently up until your 40th mission, but then it dawns on you. You aren't even half-way finished with the game. The bank heist is absolutely amazing, but everything after pales in comparison. Nothing has the same intensity, pacing or feeling of danger. The rest is just so easy and incredibly predictable.It would be fine if the narrative had any kind of pay-off, but even with Niko being an excellent character, the game never does much else aside from flimsily set up missions. Niko complains about not having money, gangsters want him dead because he won't kneel to their beck and call and you just shift from employer to employer until the game is finished in around 23 hours.The idea of Niko being an immigrant with a miserable past and trying to escape it is fantastic. That it only really gets touched upon in 15 of the 94 missions is ridiculous. You can't continuously complain about killing people while never considering another option.It would be one thing for him to admit he enjoys his line of work, or that his cousin is accumulating so much debt, but I've finished the campaign twice now with over $750,000. That is hardly poor and destitute. If anything, you could buy your own island with that kind of cash.But Niko is played so well and his initial story arc very compelling that it becomes hard to hate him. You just end up hating how the game is so damn subpar. This is from Rockstar North, the people who basically defined how a crime drama should be played. That you only ever end up doing one thing ad naseum is beyond excusable.As for the multiplayer component, it doesn't really exist anymore. It was fun back in the hey-day, but you would be hard pressed to even get into a match in the present. The modes aren't so bad, if you can get past the clunky movement of your character. The free-roam co-op mode is also very pleasant.But since GTA V is out and that games multiplayer offers a far bigger variety of game modes, you'd only really be interested in GTA IV for it's campaign mode. Since that is essentially a wash, there isn't much reason to dig into this game.I could go on about the side missions or activities, but there are so damn few. Darts, pool, bowling and strip clubs. That is it. You can take friends, I suppose, but that it ultimately vapid. Even the "stranger" missions do nothing more than asking you to kill people.So, in 2015, GTA IV is not worth your time. It is a curious piece of Rockstar history that features a great protagonist in a very mediocre and exhausting experience. Just skip it and stick with it's predecessor.5/10			
